Calling the Guru From Afar
A Prayer to Pierce the Heart with Devotion
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé

Namo gurave!1
The practice of calling the guru from afar is well known to everyone, but the key to invoking
blessings is to arouse a devotion that is not mere lip service but inspired by disenchantment
and renunciation. It should be felt in the depths of the heart, the very marrow of one’s
bones. So, chant this to a beautiful melody, in the certain conviction that there is
no buddha greater than the guru.

lama khyen no lama khyen no
Guru, watch over me. Guru, watch over me.
drinchen tsawé lama khyen no
Kind root guru, watch over me!

dü sum sangye kyi ngowo
Essence of the buddhas of the three times;
lungtok damchö kyi jungné
Source of the sacred Dharma’s scripture and realization;
pak tsok gendün gyi ngadak
Lord of the Saṅgha’s noble assembly:
tsawé lama khyé khyen no
Root guru, watch over me.

jinlab tukjé yi terchen
Great treasure of compassionate blessings,
ngödrub nam nyi kyi jungné
Source of the two types of siddhi,
trinlé chi dö kün tsol dzé
Accomplisher of all the activities we might wish for:
tsawé lama khyé khyen no
Root guru, watch over me.

lama öpakmé pa khyen no
Guru Amitābha, watch over me:
trödral chökü long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of dharmakāya’s simplicity.
dak sok lé ngen khorwar khyam nam
Lead me and others with negative karma who wander through saṃsāra
dechen dakpé shying du drong dzö
To the pure land of Great Bliss.

lama chenrezik wang khyen no
Guru Avalokiteśvara, watch over me:
ösal longkü long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of sambhogakāya’s luminosity.
rik druk dukngal tsené shyi shying
Thoroughly pacify the suffering of the six classes
kham sum khorwa dong né truk dzö
And empty saṃsāra’s three realms from their very depths.

lama pema jungné khyen no
Guru Padmasambhava, watch over me:
ngayab pema ö né zik shik
Look upon me from Cāmara’s Lotus Light.
nyikdü kyabmé bö bang nyamtak
Swiftly protect us with your compassion—
tukjé nyurwa nyi du kyob dzö
We, the helpless, miserable beings of this dark age.

lama yeshe tsogyal khyen no
Guru Yeshé Tsogyal, watch over me:
khachö dechen drong né zik shik
Look upon me from the celestial city of great bliss.
dikden dak sok sipé tso lé
Deliver us harm-doers from saṃsāra’s ocean
tarpé drongkhyer chenpor drol dzö
To the magnificent citadel of liberation.

kater gyüpé lama khyen no
Gurus of the kama and terma lineages, watch over me:
zungjuk yeshe long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of unified wisdom.
dak gyü trulpé münkhang tol né
Break through the dark dungeon of my deluded mind,
tokpé nyima sharwar dzö chik
And cause the sun of realization to dawn.

künkhyen drimé özer khyen no
Omniscient Drimé Özer, watch over me:
lhündrub ö ngé long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of the spontaneous five lights.
kadak gongpé tsal chen dzok né
Help me achieve the full strength of realizing original purity,
nang shyi ta ru chinpar dzö chik
And thereby bring the four visions to completion.

nyammé jowo yabsé khyen no
Peerless father Lord Atiśa and your heirs, watch over me:
ganden lha gyé ü né zik shik
Look upon me from Tuṣita, amidst its hundred deities.
tongnyi nyingjé nyingpochen gyi
Let emptiness suffused with compassion—
changsem gyü la kyewar dzö chik
Bodhicitta—be born within my mind.

drub chok mar mi dak sum khyen no
Three supreme siddhas, Marpa, Mila, and Gampopa, watch over me:
dechen dorjé ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the vajra space of great bliss.
detong chakchen chok ngödrub ching
Help me attain bliss-emptiness, the supreme siddhi of Mahāmudrā,
chöku nying ü separ dzö chik
And awaken dharmakāya in the depths of my heart.

jikten wangchuk karma pa khyen no
Karmapa, mighty lord of the world, watch over me:
khakhyab drodul ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space in which infinite beings are tamed.
chö kün denmé gyumar tok né
Help me realize how all things are unreal and illusory,
nang sem ku sum charwar dzö chik
And let mind and appearance arise as the three kāyas.

kagyü cheshyi chung gyé khyen no
Kagyü masters of the four major and eight minor lineages, watch over me:
rangnang dakpé shying né zik shing
Look upon me from the realm of pure self-appearances.
nekab shyi yi trulpa sang né
Help me clear away the delusion of the four states,
nyamtok ta ru chinpar dzö chik
And bring experience and realization to perfection.

jetsün gongma nam nga khyen no
Five Sakya forefathers,2 watch over me:
khordé yermé long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa’s inseparability.
namdak ta gom chö sum drel né
Help me combine pure view, meditation, and conduct,
sangwé lam chok dröpar dzö chik
And thus traverse the supreme secret path.

nyammé shangpa kagyü khyen no
Peerless Shangpa Kagyü masters, watch over me:
namdak sangye shying né zik shik
Look upon me from the realm of pure awakening.
tab drol nyamlen tsulshyin jong né
Help me train well in means and liberation,
mi lob zungjuk nyepar dzö chik
And thereby attain the unity of no-more-learning.

drubchen tangtong gyalpo khyen no
Great siddha Tangtong Gyalpo, watch over me:
tsolmé tukjé long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of effortless compassion.
denmé tokpé tulshyuk drub né
Help me achieve the discipline of realizing unreality,
lungsem rangwang duwar dzö chik
And thereby gain mastery over prāṇa and mind.

pa chik dampa sangye khyen no
Padampa Sangyé, sole father, watch over me:
lerab drubpé ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space of supreme action.
gyüpé jinlab nying la shyuk né
Let the blessings of the lineage seep into my heart
tendrel chokmé charwar dzö chik
And auspicious connections arise without limit.

ma chik lab kyi drönma khyen no
Machik Labdrön, sole mother, watch over me:
sherab parchin long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of the perfection of wisdom.
dakdzin nyem jé tsené chö ching
Help me annihilate this maddening ego-clinging
dakmé trödral den tong dzö chik
And see the truth of selflessness beyond constructs.

künkhyen dolpo sangye khyen no
Omniscient Dolpo Sangyé, watch over me:
namkün chokden ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space supreme in all aspects.
powé uk nam umar gak né
Help me still breath’s movement in the central channel,
podral dorjé ku tob dzö chik
And thus attain the immutable vajra-kāya.

jetsün tara nata khyen no
Venerable Tāranātha, watch over me:
nam sum ponyé ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space of the three emissaries.3
dorjé sang lam gekmé drö né
Help me traverse the secret vajra path unhindered,
jalü khachö drubpar dzö chik
And thus accomplish the celestial rainbow body.

jamyang khyentsé wangpo khyen no
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, watch over me:4
khyen nyi yeshe ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space of twofold wisdom.
mi shé lo yi münpa sang né
Dispel the mental darkness of unknowing,
khyen rab nangwa gyepar dzö chik
And make the light of supreme knowledge shine.

ösal trulpé dorjé khyen no
Ösal Trülpé Dorjé, watch over me:
jazer ö ngé long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of five-coloured rainbow light.
tik lungsem kyi drima dak né
Help me cleanse all stains of bindu, prāṇa, and mind,
shyönnu bumkur changchub dzö chik
And thus awaken as the youthful vase body.

pema do ngak lingpa khyen no
Pema Do-Ngak Lingpa, watch over me:
detong gyurmé long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of unchanging empty bliss.
gyal dang gyalsé gongpa tadak
Enable me to fulfil completely
dak gi yongsu kong nü dzö chik
All the intentions of the victors and their heirs.

ngawang yönten gyatso khyen no
Ngawang Yönten Gyatso, watch over me:5
ying yé zungjuk long né zik shik
Look upon me from the field of wisdom-space unity.
nangwé dendzin hrul gyi shyik né
Help me to break through the reifying of appearance,
gang jung lam du khyer nü dzö chik
And thus bring whatever occurs onto the path.

gyalsé lodrö tayé khyen no
Lodrö Tayé, son of the victors, watch over me:
jam dang nyingjé ngang né zik shik
Look upon me from the state of love and compassion.
dro kün drinchen pamar shé né
Help me to recognize all beings as my kind parents
shyenpen nying né drub nü dzö chik
And wholeheartedly accomplish the welfare of others.

pema gar gyi wangchuk khyen no
Pema Gargyi Wangchuk, watch over me:
dechen ösal ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space of luminous great bliss.
duk nga yeshe nga ru drol né
Let the five poisons be liberated as the five wisdoms,
pang tob nyidzin shyikpar dzö chik
So I may break through the duality of riddance and gain.

ten nyi yungdrung lingpa khyen no
Tenyi Yungdrung Lingpa, watch over me:
sishyi nyamnyi ying né zik shik
Look upon me from the space of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa’s equality.
mögü nalma gyü la kyé né
Let natural devotion be born within my mind
tok drol dünyam chenpor dzö chik
And realization and liberation occur simultaneously.

drinchen tsawé lama khyen no
Kind root guru, watch over me:
chitsuk dechen né né zik shik
Look upon me from my crown, the abode of great bliss.
rangrig chökü rang shyal jal né
Help me to see my true face, self-aware dharmakāya,
tsé chik sangye drubpar dzö chik
And thus accomplish buddhahood in a single lifetime!

kyema
Alas!
dak dré semchen lé ngen dik tochen
I and beings like me, with negative karma and misdeeds,
tokmé dü né khorwar yün ring khyam
Have long wandered in saṃsāra, from time immemorial.
dadung dukngal tamé nyong gyurwé
Our suffering is constant; it knows no end,
kyoshé kechik tsam yang makyepé
Yet we feel not the slightest disillusion, not even for a moment.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
ngejung tingné kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that renunciation may arise deep within my heart.

daljor tob kyang mitsé tong zé khen
Though I’ve obtained the freedoms and riches, I waste my time,
dönmé tsé dir jawé taktu yeng
Perpetually distracted by the trivial concerns of this life.
dön chen tarpa drub la lelö khyer
Laziness prevents my pursuit of what is meaningful, liberation,
norbü ling né laktong lok gyurpé
So I must return empty-handed from this island of jewels.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
milü dönden drubpar jingyi lob
Bless me that my human birth may yet prove significant.

ma shi sateng lüpa chik kyangmé
Death spares no one upon this earth:
danta chik jé nyi tü parol dro
Beings depart even now, one after another.
rang yang nyurwa nyi du chi gö kyang
And though I too must pass very soon,
yün ring dö drab jepé nying rulpo
My foolish heart still expects to endure.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
longmé lona tungwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may curtail my impossible plans.

nying du dukpé dzashé sosor dral
Friends and family, held so dear, must go their separate ways;
serné sakpé nordzé shyen gyi chö
My wealth, hoarded so jealously, will be enjoyed by others.
chepé lü kyang shul duwor né su
Even my cherished body will be cast aside,
namshé bardo tolmé khorwar khyam
As my consciousness wanders aimlessly through the bardo.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
chikyang gömé tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the futility of it all.

jikpé münpa nakpö ngön né su
Terrifying, pitch-black darkness looms before me,
lé kyi lungmar drakpö gyab né dé
While the ferocious winds of karma lash at my back.
mi duk shinjé ponyé dek ching tsok
Yama’s gruesome minions strike and assault me—
zö ka ngendrö dukngal nyong gö na
When I’m subjected to the lower realms’ unbearable pain,
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
ngensong yang lé tarwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may escape the abyss of the lower realms.

rang kyön riwo tsam yang khong du bé
My own faults, though mountainous, I conceal within;
shyen kyön tildru tsam yang drok ching mö
Others’ flaws, though negligible, I proclaim and condemn.
yönten chungzé mé kyang zangpor lom
I lack even the slightest qualities but consider myself great;
chöpé ming tak chö min khonar chö
I call myself a Dharma practitioner but act only to the contrary.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
rang dö ngagyal shyiwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may quell my selfishness and pride.

ten pung dakdzin gongpo khong du chuk
I keep the ruinous demon of ego-clinging hidden within,
sam tsé tamché nyönmong pelwé gyu
While all my thoughts cause the kleśas to increase,
jé tsé tamché mi gé drebu chen
And whatever I do bears the fruit of non-virtue.
tarpé lam du chok tsam machinpé
Since I’ve not made the slightest progress on the path to liberation,
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
ngardzin tsené chöpar jingyi lob
Bless me that ego-clinging may be severed at its root.

tö mé tsam la ga dang mi ga kyé
The slightest praise or blame delights or depresses me.
tsik ngen tsam la zöpé gocha shor
Harsh words alone detach the armour of my patience.
nyamtak tong yang nyingjé sem mi kyé
Even seeing the wretched does not stir my compassion;
jin yul jung dü serné düpé ching
When encountering the needy, I am constrained by greed.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
semgyü chö dang drepar jingyi lob
Bless me that the Dharma may suffuse my mind.

khorwa nyingpo mé la nyingpor zung
Although saṃsāra is hollow, I take it to be meaningful.
to gö chirdu ten dün ling giwor
For the sake of food and clothing, I forsake the lasting goal.
khogu tsang yang gö gö chi chir mang
Though I have all that I need, I still crave even more.
mi den gyumé chö kyi rangsem lü
My mind is beguiled by these unreal, illusory phenomena.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
tsé di lo yi tongwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may give up the concerns of this life.

lü sem dukngal tramo ang mi zö kyang
I cannot bear the slightest pain, physical or mental,
ngendror dro la mi tser nying döchen
Yet my stony heart does not fear the lower realms.
gyundré lumé ngönsum tong shyindu
Though I can see that cause and effect are unfailing,
gewa mi drub dikpé yolang pel
I neglect the practice of virtue and persist in my misdeeds.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
lé la yiché kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may develop trust in the karmic process.

dra la dang sem nyen la chaksem kyé
With hatred for my enemies and attachment to my friends,
langdor né la timuk mün tar tom
I am lost in the dark, confused as to what to adopt and avoid.
chö shyin chö tsé jing muk nyi wang shor
When practicing the Dharma I succumb to dullness and sleep;
chö min chö tsewang po sal ching drung
But when otherwise engaged my senses are keen and alert.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
nyönmong drawo chompar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may conquer the enemy, disturbing emotions.

chi né té na yangdak chöpé zuk
From the outside, I may seem a genuine practitioner,
nang du rangsem chö dang madrepé
But inside, my mind has not merged with the Dharma.
drul duk shyindu nyönmong khong na bé
Like a poisonous snake, I hide my afflictions within;
kyen dang tré tsé chöpé tsang tak tön
Then, when conditions are ripe, my faults are exposed.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
ranggyü rang gi tulwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may tame my own mind.

rang kyön ngenpa rang gi matokpé
Since I cannot see my own rotten faults,
chöpé zuk zung chö min natsok chö
I adopt a practitioner’s guise and flout the Dharma.
nyönmong mi gé lé la shuk kyi gom
Disturbing emotions and non-virtue are now so ingrained
gé lo yang yang kyé kyang yang yang ché
That positive intentions, though repeatedly kindled, only subside.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
rang kyön rang gi tongwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may see my own shortcomings.

shyak ré song shyin chi la par par nyé
With each day that passes, death comes ever closer;
nyin ré lön shyin ranggyü chir chir gyong
With each day that goes by, mind grows ever wilder.
lama ten shyin mögü rimgyi drib
While following the guru, my devotion has gradually waned,
ché la tsedung daknang jé chung song
My affection and pure regard for Dharma siblings declined.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
mu gö ranggyü tulwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may tame this troublesome mind.

kyamdro semkyé soldeb jé na yang
Though I take refuge, generate bodhicitta, and supplicate,
mögü nyingjé tingné makyepé
Devotion and compassion are not deeply felt from within.
tsik tsam wang gyur chöchö gejor nam
Dharma practice and virtuous deeds are merely routine;
jé lo tsam lé gyü tokma khelwé
Going through the motions leaves my character untouched.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
chi jé chö su drowar jingyi lob
Bless me that whatever I do may become the Dharma.

dak dé dö lé dukngal tamché jung
All suffering is born from seeking happiness for oneself,
shyenpen sem kyi sangye drub sung kyang
While buddhahood, it’s taught, springs from wishing others well.
sem chok kyé ching rang dö puk tu chuk
I have formed the supreme resolve but retain my selfish aims.
shyenpen tachi shyen nö shyorla drub
Never mind helping others; I somehow cause them harm.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
dakshyen jewar nüpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may be able to exchange myself for others.

sangye ngö nang lama mi ru zung
I see the guru, a Buddha in the flesh, as a mere human being,
dam zab tönpé kadrin ngang gi jé
And constantly forget the kindness of his profound instruction.
rang dö ma jung tsé na yiché gom
I am disappointed whenever my expectations are not met,
dzechö nam la tetsom lokté drib
And beset by wrong views and mistrust of activity and conduct.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
mögü dribmé pelwar jingyi lob
Bless me that my devotion may not diminish but increase.

rangsem sangye yin kyang ngoma shé
Although my mind is the buddha, I fail to recognize this.
namtok chöku yin kyang dön ma tok
Although my thoughts are dharmakāya, I do not realize it.
machö nyukma yin kyang kyong manü
Although simplicity is the genuine state, I cannot sustain it.
rangbab neluk yin kyang yi ma ché
Although natural repose is the way of abiding, I distrust it.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
rangrig rang sar drolwar jingyi lob
Bless me that self-awareness may be liberated within itself.

yong ngé chiwa nying né dren ma tub
Though death will surely come, I cannot take this to heart.
pen ngé damchö tsulshyin drub manü
Though Dharma surely helps, I cannot practice it as I should.
den ngé lé dré langdor tsulshyin mé
Though karmic laws are surely real, I do not act accordingly.
gö ngé dren shé ma ten yengwé khyer
Though mindfulness is surely needed, I am lost in distraction.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
yengmé drenpé zinpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may maintain undistracted mindfulness.

ngön lé ngenpé nyikmé dü tar kyé
Due to past misdeeds, I was born at the dark age’s end:
ngar jé tamché dukngal gyu ru song
All my previous actions are now the causes of suffering.
drok ngen nam kyi dikpé dribmé yok
Errant companions cast the shadow of their misdeeds.
dönmé leng mö gejor yengwé khyer
Meaningless chatter draws me away from virtuous acts.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
chö la nyingrü nüpar jingyi lob
Bless me with the strength of heart to practice Dharma.

dangpor sam gyu chö lé mepa la
In the beginning, all my thoughts were of the Dharma;
tama drub dré khorwa ngensong gyu
In the end, I’ve achieved saṃsāra and the lower realms.
tarpé lotok mi gé sé kyi chom
Liberation’s crop has been ravaged by the frost of non-virtue:
ten dün nyepé mu gö dak dra nam
Ill-disciplined brutes like me sabotage our ultimate aims.
lama khyen no tukjé nyurdu zik
Guru, watch over me: swiftly look upon me with compassion!
damchö ta ru chinpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may follow the sacred Dharma to the end.

kyoshé tingné kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may feel weariness from deep within my heart.
longmé lona tungwar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may curtail  plans, as there’s no time to waste.
chiwa nying né drenpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may take the imminence of death to heart.
lé la yiché kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may trust the cause and effect of karma.

lam la barché mepar jingyi lob
Bless me that no obstacles may arise on my path.
drub la tsöndrü nüpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may be diligent in practice.
kyen ngen lam du longpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may transform adversity into the path.
nyenpo rang tsuk tubpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may steadfastly apply the remedies.

chömin mögü kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may develop uncontrived devotion.
neluk rang shyal jalwar jin gi lob
Bless me that I may see my true face, the natural state.
rangrig nying ü separ jingyi lob
Bless me that self-awareness may awaken in my heart.
trulnang shyi tsa chöpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may cut deluded perception at its root.
tsé chik sangye drubpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may attain buddhahood in this very life.

solwa deb so lama rinpoche
Precious guru, to you I pray;
dungwé bö do drinchen chö kyi jé
With longing I call upon you, kindly lord of Dharma.
kalmé dak la resa khyö lemé
I have no other hope but you, wretched as I am:
tuk yi yermé drepar jingyi lob
Bless me that wisdom and mind may merge as one!

Some time ago, several devoted practitioners requested me to compose something along these lines,
but I was delayed in doing so. More recently, when Samdrup Drönma, a female practitioner
of noble family, and Deva Rakṣita made their entreaties, I, Lodrö Tayé, someone who
merely maintains the appearance of a guru in this degenerate age, wrote this at the great
practice center of Dzongshö Deshek Düpa. May virtue and goodness spread!

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Laura Dainty and Oriane Sherap Lhamo, revised by
Peter Woods) and edited for Lotsawa House by Adam Pearcey, 2021. With grateful acknowledgement
of all previous translations.

Version: 1.1-20211129
↑ The Sanskrit means: Homage to the Guru!↑ The five founding fathers of the Sakya School were:
Sachen Kunga Nyingpo (1092–1158), Sönam Tsemo (1142–1182), Drakpa Gyaltsen (1147–1216),
Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen (1182–1251) and Chögyal Pakpa Lodrö Gyaltsen (1235–1280).↑ Emissaries
(pho nya) here are outer, inner and secret yoginīs. ↑ This and the subsequent two
verses invoke Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (1820–1892) by different names.↑ This and the subsequent
three verses invoke Jamgön Kongtrul (1813–1899) by different names.