Jewels of Many Colours
Ordinary Fire Pūjas for the Four Activities Based on a Single Substance to Easily Conclude Approach
and Accomplishment
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Taye

Namo guru deva ḍākinī ye
I pay the homage of the view in the simultaneity of realization and liberationTo the deities
of the three roots who are the union of awareness and emptiness.Having thus prostrated myself
in the recognition of the absence of duality,I will now set forth practical instructions
profound and easy to apply.
This fire offering for ordinary practice based on a single substance is a very special pith
instruction for the fulfilment of samaya breaches such as additions and omissions of syllables
and for quickly receiving the benefit of the practice, regardless of the three roots
or Dharma protectors practice you have done. The text has two parts: general instructions
and specific instructions.
A. General instructions
In general, fire offering practices require us to gather the type of substance specific to the
activity on which we focus, such as white mustard seeds to pacify obstructing forces, cynodon
strands  to increase longevity, or substances for magnetizing and subjugating practices.
Similarly, the mantras and their conclusions must also be adapted to the activity. But
here I will present a general, quick practice of restoration. To do this practice, no matter
which sādhana you use for approach and accomplishment, once you've completed the practice
sessions, continue to maintain the confidence of being the deity. Raise a small wall
in front of you to make a modest fireplace, or place a container that can receive fire in
which to pour the fire offering. Place the sieve and the ladle, and in a clean container
the substance(s) to pour into the fire.
B. Specific instructions
This section presents the specific instructions for each of the four types of activities: pacifying,
enriching, magnetizing and subjugating.
1. Pacifying
All pacifying activities are included within the pacification of negative actions and obscurations.
So, prepare sesame seeds in an offering bowl or any other suitable container. Sprinkle
the fire with the inner offering and say:
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
mé nyi ngowo döné gökarmo
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
nampa yeshe mepung karsal bar
She appears in the form of masses of radiant, white wisdom fire.
dé ü ché gé kyilkhor lhatsok nam
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of the name of the deity,
karsal shyi dzum özer karpo tro
White, brilliant, peaceful and smiling, and radiating white light.
chaktsen dorjé dütsi bumpa nam
Their hand implements are the vajra and the vase filled with nectar,
gyenché yongdzok damyé yermé pa
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
shyiwé trinlé dzé la gyepé shyuk
Please stay here happy to perform the pacifying activities.
dak gi dikdrib nyetung bakchak dang
My negative actions, obscurations, faults, transgressions, habitual tendencies,
khyepar ngak kyi lhakché nortrul sok
And in particular the mistakes I have made in my practice, such as additions and omissions during
the recitation of mantras, and so on –
dorjé dam lé galpé nongpa kün
All the mistakes that run against the vajra samayas
na gö lung dang lhenchik til la tim
Are carried by the air that comes out of my nostrils and is absorbed into the sesame seeds.
Say these lines and exhale.
denyi zakmé dütsi gyün gyurpa
The sesame seeds become an unceasing stream of untainted nectar
kyilkhor lhatsok shyal du pulwa yi
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala
yeshe chok gi gyepé zijin kyé
Now glowing, enraptured by supreme wisdom.
jinlab mé ö dawé dangchen trö
Blessings emerge from the fire in the form of moon-coloured light
tok drib bakchak lhakmé sekpar gyur
That incinerates completely all concepts, obscurations and habitual tendencies.
For a general practice of the three roots say:
om ah hung hrih benza guru dewa dhakini sarwa siddhi pala hung ah
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ vajra guru deva ḍākinī sarva siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
And for specific deities say their mantra-essence, adding at the end the mantra:
om sarwa papam daha na badzra ya soha
oṃ sarva pāpaṃ dahana vajrāya svāhā
drubpa pö nedön dikdrib ngak kyi lhakché lasokpé nyepa tamché shanting kuru yé soha
The practitioner(s)’s problems – diseases, negative influences, negative actions, obscurations,
additions and omissions in the mantra recitation, and so on – all are śāntiṃ kuruye svāhā!
Make the offerings as many times as is appropriate while reciting the mantra and this additional
line. At the end, inhale while actualizing the following words:
mé nang yeshe kyilkhor lhatsok nam
Doing the practice of prāṇa, I inhale through the nostrils
lung gi jorwé na goné drang té
The maṇḍala of wisdom deities in the fire.
té ok tummö mé dang nyimé gyur
The prāṇa unites indivisibly with the tummo fire under the navel,
dé lé mebar lü kyi nang kün gang
Blazing and filling my entire body,
tsa kham nyikma tamché lhakmé sek
To burn away completely all the impurities of the body's subtle channels.
dangma dechen dütsir shyuwa yi
The essences of the elements melt into the nectar of great bliss
pung kham kyemché rangjung kyilkhor pa
And immaculate bliss enraptures
zakmé dewé shintu gyepar gyur
The deities of the maṇḍala naturally present in the aggregates, elements and sense sources.
Say these words while linking them to the inner fire offering. Then, abide by the realization
of the union of space and awareness.
Say prayers of aspiration related to pacifying activities, and auspicious words.
Pacification of obstructing forces and obstacles
If you wish more specifically to pacify obstructing forces (gek) and obstacles, prepare mustard
seeds as a substance and change the practice as follows.
Generate the deity as before until “...to perform the pacifying activities.” Then, insert the
four lines, “[The burned substances] become an unceasing stream of untainted nectar...”.
After “…all concepts, obscurations and habitual tendencies”, add:
dön gek barché lhakmé sekpar gyur
And negative influences, obstructing forces and obstacles.
At the end of the mantra of the deity add:
om sarwa arta siddha ya soha
oṃ sarva artha siddhāya svāhā
dön gek jungpo kyen ngen barchö tamché shanting kuru soha
Negative influences, obstructing forces, elemental demons, negative circumstances, obstacles—all
are śāntiṃ kuru svāhā!
At the end, the deities dissolve into you. You can then practise the inner fire offering as
much as you like. You can also adapt the words of the practice and the visualization for curses,
spells and so on.
Elimination of Pollution
When you do any deity practice of approach, accomplishment and so on, if it appears important
to eliminate samaya-related pollution, do the following practice extracted from the Tukdrup
Barche Kunsel, one of the new treasures of Chokling.
For the cleansing of samaya-related pollution ༔
Through Ucchuṣma, ༔
Stack wood in a hearth for peaceful activities, ༔
Light the fire and sprinkle it well with purifying water. ༔
tongpé ngang lé kechik gi
In the natural state of emptiness, instantly, ༔
yeshe mepung cher bar ü
Amid masses of intense wisdom fire, ༔
hung lé trogyal mewa tsek
Hūṃ becomes the king of the wrathful ones Ucchuṣma, ༔
dükhé dokchen trowö nyam
Smoke-coloured and with wrathful expression. ༔
chak nyi tukkar dikdzub dzé
His two hands in front of his heart form the threatening mudrā. ༔
dar dang rinchen drul gyi gyen
He is adorned with the silks, jewels and snakes. ༔
shyab nyi dortab pé nyir shyeng
His two legs in striding posture, he stands upon a lotus and sun. ༔
damtsik yeshe yermé gyur
Samaya and wisdom deities are indivisible. ༔
rang gi tra sen gö dum sok
Confident that my hair, nails, these pieces of my clothes and so on ༔
damtsik nyamchak dikdrib dang
Gather all breakages of samaya, negative actions, ༔
drib dang mi tsang düpar mö
Obscurations, veils and impurities, ༔
om ah hung gi dütsir gyur
I transform them into nectar through ‘Oṃ āḥ hūṃ’ ༔
shyal du pulwé lhakmé shyé
And offer all to the mouths of the deities who enjoy it without leaving even a drop. ༔
gyé tsim özer barwa yi
Delighted and satisfied, they blaze with rays of light ༔
dak gi mitün kün jang gyur
That cleanse all adverse circumstances that affect me. ༔
Offer a small amount of sesame and mustard seeds and say: ༔
om bhurkur maha tra na ya
oṃ bhur kur mahāprāṇāya ༔
bhurtsi bhur ki bimalé
bhur ci bhur ki vimale ༔
utsukma krodha radza hung pé
ucchuṣma krodharāja hūṃ phaṭ ༔
sarva papam sarva karma awa ra na bhamim kuru soha
sarva pāpaṃ sarva karma āvaraṇa bhaśmiṃ kuru svāhā ༔
At times, also increase this activity mantra with ༔
om mani dhari hri da anu pa sha dhari hri da hung pé
oṃ maṇi dhari hrida anupāśa dhari hrida hūṃ phaṭ ༔
lha nyi ö shyu rang la tim
The deities melt into light that dissolves into me ༔
yeshe mé yi dikdrib dang
And the wisdom fire consumes entirely ༔
drib dang mi tsang tamché kün
All negative actions, obscurations, ༔
lhakmé nyi du sekpar sam
Veils and impurities without exception. ༔
Step nine times over the fire. ༔
Make tsatsas with the ashes ༔
Or pour them into a large river. ༔
This practice pacifies all breakages of samaya, ༔
Associated obscurations and obstacles to longevity, ༔
And grants the fortune of merit. ༔
2. Enriching
Again, according to the general instructions for enriching fire offerings, you should prepare
a mix of ‘excellent food’, valuable substances, grains, medicinal substances and silk. Then,
sprinkle the fire with the inner offering, and say:
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
mé nyi ngowo döné gökarmo
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
nampa yeshe mepung ser sal bar
She appears in the form of masses of yellow, radiant wisdom fire.
dé ü ché gé kyilkhor lhatsok nam
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity,
ser sal gek nyam özer ser dok tro
Yellow, brilliant, elegant, and radiating yellow light.
chaktsen norbu rinchen barwa nam
Their hand implements are blazing jewels,
gyenché yongdzok damyé yermé pa
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
gyepé trinlé dzé la gyepé shyuk
Please stay here happy to perform the enriching activities.
sekdzé zakmé dütsi serpö gyün
The burned offerings become an unceasing stream of untainted yellow nectar,
kyilkhor lhatsok shyal du pulwa yi
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala.
yeshe chok gi gyepé zijin kyé
Now glowing, enraptured by supreme wisdom.
özer nyimé dangchen dak la shyuk
Their sun-coloured light rays enter me
ngak kyi yeshe yönten rabgyé gyur
Increasing fully the qualities of Mantra wisdom.
Say the mantra of the deity appending at the end:
om sarva samba dé soha
oṃ sarva sambade svāhā
drubpapö tsé sö paljor ngak kyi yeshe tamché pushtim kuru om
The longevity, merit, fortune, Mantra wisdom of the practitioner(s) are all puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ
Say also:
om ah hung sarva ayuh punyé jnana pushtim kuru om
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva ayuḥ puṇye jñāna puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ
Pour offerings for every recitation.
The conclusion is the same as for pacification.

Possible Emendations
When the practice is essentially dedicated to longevity, the substance to burn is the cynodon;
for the last sentence say, “I obtain the siddhi of immortality.”; finally, add to the deity's
mantra, “oṃ vajra āyuṣe svāhā”.
If you want to increase experiences and accomplishments, offer ‘excellent food’ in which you
have poured alcohol with amṛta. The mantra is the same as before, to which you add the sentence,
“ The practitioner(s)’ experiences and wisdom of realization are all puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ!”.

3. Magnetizing
For the magnetizing activity, prepare the offerings to burn: ‘excellent food’ mixed with sesame
oil, and unhusked grains. Prepare the specific substances: padma rakta or menstrual blood,
sindhura, red flowers, mineral salt, all soaked in intoxicant. If you cannot collect
these substances, prepare red flowers sprinkled with alcohol and mineral salt. Sprinkle the
fire with the inner offering and say:
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
mé nyi ngowo döné gökarmo
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
nampa yeshe mepung mar sal bar
She appears in the form of masses of red, radiant wisdom fire.
dé ü ché gé kyilkhor lhatsok nam
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity,
mar tser chak nyam özer marpo tro
Red, glowing, full of desire, and radiating red light.
chaktsen pemé chakkyu shyakpa nam
Their hand implements are the hook and the lasso of lotus,
gyenché yongdzok damyé yermé pa
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
wang gi trinlé dzé la gyepé shyuk
Please stay here happy to perform the magnetizing activities.
sekdzé dechen dütsi marpö gyün
The offerings to burn become an unceasing stream of red nectar of great bliss,
kyilkhor lhatsok shyal du pulwa yi
Offered to the mouth of the deities of the maṇḍala.
zakmé dewé rab tsim jé chak yö
Untainted bliss satisfies them completely and they thrill with desire.
ö mar chakkyü yibchen khakhyab trö
They emit rays of red light shaped in hooks that fill the whole of space
ngak kyi yeshe tutob nüpé tsal
And bring us the capacity, strength and power of Mantra wisdom,
khordé nangsi dak gi wang dü gyur
And power over everything that appears and exists in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Say the mantra of the deity and add:
om sarva samba dé soha
oṃ sarva sambade svāhā
om benza bi dza ya soha
oṃ vajra vijaya svāhā
choktün ngödrub ngak kyi yeshe kham sum nangsi tamché drubpapö wang du gyur chikwa shang kuru
ho
May the practitioner(s) have power over all ordinary and supreme accomplishments, Mantra wisdom
and all that appears and exists in the three realms – vāśaṃ kuru hoḥ
Also say the mantra:
om ah hung sarva loka ba shang kuru ho
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva loka vāśaṃ kuru hoḥ
Recite them as many times as you can and make the offerings.
If there is something or someone in particular that you need to bring under your power, modify
the end of the sentence appended to the mantra to add their name: “…three realms and [their
name] – vāśaṃ kuru ho!”

4. Subjugating
In general the substances to burn are mustard seeds soaked in poisoned blood. In particular,
if direct wrathful intervention is the main activity of the practice, prepare a small effigy
with small pieces of meat sprinkled with drops of blood. Sprinkle the fire with the inner
offering and say:
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
mé nyi ngowo döné gökarmo
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
nampa yeshe mepung marnak tsub
It appears in the form of masses of raging wisdom fire, dark red in colour.
dé ü ché gé kyilkhor lhatsok nam
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity.
rab trö tum ngam özer tingnak truk
Extremely wrathful, fierce, vehement, and radiating rays of dark blue light.
raldri purbu lasok tsöncha nam
Their weapons are swords, kīlas and so on,
barwé cheden damyé yermé pa
And they wear the blazing garments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
drakpö trinlé dzé la ringpar shyuk
Come quickly to carry out the subjugating activities.
sekdzé dragek sha trak dütsi gyün
The burned offerings become an incessant stream of nectar of the flesh and blood of enemies
and obstructing forces,
shyal du pulwé ngampé tab kyi shyé
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala who swallow it all ravenously.
ku lé mé tsön tro chung tokgö trö
Their bodies emanate fire, weapons, small wrathful deities and violent lightning
barchö jepé dragek damsi tsok
That reduce to dust all enemies, obstructing forces and damsi demons who create obstacles,
ming yang mepar dul shyin lakpar gyur
As if even their names had never existed.
Pour the offerings while reciting the mantra of the deity to which you add:
sarwa sha trün bighanen daha daha hung pé
oṃ sarva śatrūn vighnān daha daha hūṃ phaṭ
drubpapo la nö ching bardu chöpé dragek lokdren jungpo tamché maraya pé
Enemies, obstructing forces, misleading influences, elemental demons who create harm and obstacles
to the practitioner(s) are all māraya phaṭ!
This is a simple general wrathful practice and, although the practices of Senge Dongma and some
dharma protectors require specific emendations, I did not mention them here for fear of
making the text too long.
The only benefit of meandering in unnecessary details is tiredness;
May this text that presents clearly a practice to enable serious practitioners
To pour all types of fire offerings, outer and inner,
Bear the celebrations of the practitioners of the dark times.
Since I could not find a trustworthy text that presents from beginning to end this kind of necessary
ritual in a way that is easy to practise, I, Padma Garwang Trinle Drodul Tsal, produced
this arrangement according to the teachings of the three Gongdüs, at the Palace of
the Assembly of Sugatas, in Dzongshö. May virtue and goodness increase!

| Translated by Gyurme Avertin, 2019.

Version: 1.2-20220112