Music to Adorn the Illusory Display

A Concise Explanation of the Nature of the Feast Offering

by Jamgön Kongtrül Lodrö Tayé

Sarva dikṣu ṣubha jayantu!

I shall, in brief, explain the method for awakeningThrough the vast, swift yogic disciplines
of means and insight—Twin accumulations that bind the net of unity's great bliss.Guru Vajradhara,
deep in my heart's center, I pay homage to you!

This conduct,[1] both easy to apply and great in meaningBecause of its preeminence in cause
and means,Is taught in the unsurpassable yoga tantras.All you with such good fortune, rejoice!


For as long as the realms of beings and the expanse of space remain, the compassionate activities
of the victors will continue without end. Thus our teacher, Lord of the Śākyas, both
taught and continues to teach, throughout past, present, and future. His remedial Dharma
teachings are infinite in scope and equal in number to the endless array of concepts held
by beings. All these myriad teachings are contained within the causal vehicle of characteristics
and the resultant vajra vehicle.

For those whose aim is solely their own benefit, the Buddha taught the tripiṭaka of the śrāvakas.
These teachings comprise: the view of lack of a personal self; the meditations of calm-abiding
(śamatha) and clear-seeing (vipaśyanā); the conduct of not harming; and the result
of becoming a śrāvaka arhat within three human lifetimes and a pratekyabuddha after one
hundred eons.

For those who are able to aim for awakening for others' benefit, the Buddha taught the tripiṭaka
of the perfection of wisdom (prajñāpāramitā). These teachings comprise: the view of the
two types of selflessnesses; the meditation on non-conceptuality; the conduct of the ten
perfections; the four ways of attracting disciples; and the result of becoming a great regent
of the victorious ones after three countless eons, upon reaching the end of the tenth
bhūmi.

For those of exceptionally sharp faculties, the Buddha taught the tripiṭaka of mantra. These
teachings comprise: the view of the equality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa; the meditation of the
melting into bliss through the two stages; the conduct with and without elaboration; and
the result of actualizing the wisdom kāya in this life, or within sixteen lifetimes.

The content of each of these tripiṭakas, or three precious trainings, is alike in establishing
devoted individuals on the path to liberation. However, the mantrayāna is superior to all
other vehicles, not least in the following three ways:

It contains many skillful means—such as empowerment, the two stages,[2] the samayas, yogic conduct,
and the conjoining with the immediate cause—that are not taught in the other vehicles.
It is a swift path that enables one to reach awakening in a single lifetime of one hundred
years, without needing to rely on any other path. Even in the case of the kriyā tantras,
at the maximum one will reach awakening within eight eons, no longer than that. It is
a blissful approach to accomplishing the siddhis, for this path can be accomplished regardless
of one's past karma, however positive or negative, including even the inexpiable deeds.
Furthermore, it does not require austerities or hardships; on the contrary, it uses the
sense pleasures as the path.

In the resultant vehicle, the cause is sealed with the result and the result is sealed with
the cause. In this way, the equality of ground and result is practiced, and thus the result
is taken as the path. The very name of this exalted vajra vehicle of secret mantra is heard
so incredibly seldom—only once in a blue moon, in the past, present, or future—that it
is even rarer than a wish-granting jewel or udumbara flower. Even rarer than encountering
these secret mantra teachings is to gain confidence in the profound view and conduct contained
therein. And rarer still is the ability to practice the secret mantra exactly as it
is taught.

The two continuums—the resultant continuum, the blissful bond of great equality that unites
all buddhas, and the ground continuum, the element of beings that is enshrouded by discards
yet unstained by them—together constitute that which is pervaded and that which pervades.
These two continuums are engaged in during the path continuum of the indivisible truths,
free from all duality of discards and remedies, by means of the trainings with and without
characteristics. At first a yogin—a person who engages in this path—should practice the
trainings in secret. Then, once he or she has attained the middling and greater stages of
heat,[3] through the immediate causes of the central channel and the 'all-victorious conduct,'
it will not take long to accomplish the vajrakāya.

As taught in the Two Segments, the Vajra Tent, the Saṃpuṭa-tantra, and elsewhere in the great
collection of tantras, the gaṇacakra should be performed as an enhancement. If the gaṇacakra
is performed in an isolated house, on the evenings of the full and new moons, and with
a gathering of practitioners adept in either the generation or completion stage, it is known
as a common gathering. If it is performed in a very isolated place, such as a charnel
ground, on the evening of the tenth lunar day and with vīras and vīrās[4] who have gained
accomplishment in the practice, or who are naturally accomplished, it is known as an uncommon
gathering. If the gaṇacakra is performed in an extremely isolated place, such as a sacred
site where ḍākinīs gather, in an assembly hall that has three stories or layers of chambers,
for six months, or for three years and three months, and solely with a gathering of
adept practitioners, it is known as an elaborate gathering.

Furthermore, when an equal number of male and female practitioners matching the number of deities
gather, that is known as an actual gaṇacakra. When solely male practitioners gather,
with the exception of a single female practitioner seated to the left of the presiding master
in order to partake of the alcohol, that is called a heroes' feast. When solely female
practitioners gather, with the exception of a single male practitioner seated to the right
of the presiding master in order to partake of the meat, that is called a heroines' feast.

All participants should know the secret gestures and their responses, and should be engaged
in deity yoga, untainted by ordinary thoughts. The offerings, having been consecrated by the
master, should first be presented to the maṇḍala. Beginning with the alcohol and the five
amṛtas, the practitioners should relish to their full satisfaction the gathered food and
drink, such as the five meats, and should take delight in the scents, flowers and other
enjoyments.

If the gaṇacakra is performed in connection with 'the empowerment of the great master'[5] in
order to accomplish the siddhis, the transcendental third empowerment should be bestowed
in actuality,[6] before anyone partakes of the feast. One should then perform an invocation
with the Song of the Spring Queen.[7] Endowed with deep confidence in the view gained through
realization and habituation, with the meditation imbued with the three perceptions,[8]
and with the conduct of union infused with skillful means, one cultivates the immediate
cause, these four branches of approach and accomplishment.[9] By this means, before long,
the state of a ḍākinī, a vidyādhara of the desire or form realm, or indeed the wisdom kāya,
will be accomplished.

The actual gaṇacakra is the domain of fortunate individuals of the highest faculties, such as
the great Indian masters Indrabhūti, Lūipa, Kṛṣṇācārya, Ghaṇṭāpāda, Dārika, Virūpa, Tilopa
and Nāropa. We practitioners can perform something similar to this by practicing with an
equal number of male and female practitioners of the two stages, by relying on a wisdom
consort,[10] and by establishing the five meats and five amṛtas through samādhi. As for the
scriptural source for this approach, the Five Samayas states:[11]

You should join with your consort.
If you are unable to do so, then visualize her.

And, the same texts continues:

If you cannot obtain them,Or if unfit disciples take fright,The five amṛtas and five meatsCan
instead be cultivated through samādhi.

The term gaṇacakra, translated as tsok kyi khorlo in Tibetan and 'gathering circle' in English,[12]
means engaging in the conduct infused with the unique means and insight of mantra.
It is the gathering of exceptional supports and individuals who convene within the circle
of unrestricted yogic conduct.

A gaṇacakra performed by a group of individuals who engage in different deity practices is known
as a gathering of friends. A gaṇacakra performed during a consecration or fire pūjā is
called a caru feast.[13] A gaṇacakra performed amid dances, while donning the deity's attire
and deity masks, is called a buddha dance. An offering made solely to ḍākinīs, transcendental
or mundane, of fixed or unfixed number, is called an offering to the noble ladies,
or a maidens' feast. These and other forms of the gaṇacakra are taught in the tantras as
part of yogic conduct.

Generally speaking, the secret mantra's skillful means are so vast that there is nothing that
cannot become a gaṇacakra. The environment and its inhabitants—the symbolic and imputed
maṇḍalas with uncontrived, spontaneous presence as their decoration—are known as the naturally
occurring outer feast offering. The uncontrived, unbound display of perceived sense pleasures
and the perceiving six collections of consciousness[14] are known as the naturally
arising inner feast offering. To dissolve the subtle channels, subtle winds, and bindus
within the vajra body, to bring them all together through enjoyment, and to engage in this
constantly, is the secret feast offering of great bliss. Whatever appears is the wheel of
the intrinsic nature, beyond affirming and negating, beyond acceptance and rejection, radiantly
manifest as the innate mudrā, unconfined and beyond extremes—this is called the feast
offering of suchness. By recognizing the way things are within their natural condition,
everything becomes a feast offering.

Moreover, the prepared material offerings form the gathering of substances, the illusory body
constitutes the gathering of the aggregates, and one's daily food and drink form the ongoing
gathering. These and the many other types of gatherings are the supreme and unsurpassable
skillful means for gathering the accumulations.

From among them all, the feast offering as practiced these days is what is known in the secret
mantra of the New Schools as a banquet feast. This will be explained in seven points:

I. EssenceII. Literal MeaningIII. DivisionsIV. PurposeV. How It Is PerformedVI. BenefitsVII.
Results

I. Essence

It is an extraordinary gathering that accomplishes, in particular, the wisdom kāya. This it
does by uniting together the accumulation of merit with concepts and the accumulation of wisdom
without concepts.[15]

II. Literal Meaning

The Sanskrit term gaṇapūjā is translated as tsok chö in Tibetan, and literally as 'gathering-offering'
in English,[16] for it is the gathering of such as the five special articles[17]
and the offering of the skillful means of great bliss along with the insight that abides
in neither of the two extremes—which fill the basic space of phenomena to the brim.

III. Divisions

The Vajra Net,[18] a tantra of the Early Translations, states:

A gathering of many friendsIs called "the gathering of practitioners."When all the yogic ingredients
are present,It is called "the gathering of delightful enjoyments."When the deities
and oath-bound ones gather together,It is called "the gathering of the great assembly."Continuously
perfecting the two accumulationsBy enjoying everything, while free from fixation,Is
termed "the great gathering."

Accordingly, four divisions of the gathering are taught: 1) the gathering of fortunate individuals,
2) the gathering of material articles, 3) the gathering of delighted deities, and
4) the gathering of the two accumulations.

IV. Purpose

The Secret Tantra on the Common Procedures states:[19]

Do not resent the deities;
Instead, make offerings to them at the relevant times.

Likewise, in the yoga and unsurpassable yoga tantras it is taught:

As the samaya for the karma family,
Worship the deities as much as you can.

In particular, The Lightning Bolt of Wisdom, a tantra of the Early Translations, states:[20]

Best is to recite continuously,Or three times during the day and another three at night,Remaining
all the while free of distraction, throughout both day and night.Next best is to recite
on the six special days of each month,And to maintain the recitation throughout the four
seasons.At the least, aspiring practitioners should exert themselvesOn the special days
at the beginning and end of each month.If they fail to do even that,The seed of awakening
will be destroyed.The same applies to the offerings of feasts and tormas.At the very least,
you should perform these practices once a month or once a year.

Thus, with the five suchnesses,[21] you should exert yourself in the recitation of mantra, the
four mudrās, and in the subsidiary practices for dispelling obstacles and enhancing—namely
offerings of feasts and tormas. At best, you should do this every evening. Next best,
you should do this on the full moon, new moon, and eighth lunar days, and in particular in
the early morning or evening of the tenth days of the waxing and waning moon.[22] At the
least, you should perform such offerings four times a year—at the summer and winter solstices
and the spring and autumn equinoxes. Apply yourself to this, seriously and consistently.

In particular, practitioners engaged in deity practice should consecrate their food and drink
as the five meats and five amṛtas, and should thus revel in the outer and inner feasts.
This is the main samaya of food to be adopted.

Furthermore, a practitioner may, through the feast, perform a fulfillment offering that is specifically
related to one of the four activities. For instance, this may be for the pacifying
activity of replenishing samaya and purifying obscurations; for the increasing activity
of enriching lifespan, merit, meditative experience and realization; for the magnetizing
activity of bringing appearances under control; or for the wrathful activity of annihilating
wicked, malicious beings. By these means, the respective siddhis are swiftly attained.
There are many purposes for performing feast offerings.

V. How the Gathering Is Performed

The Practitioners

The fortunate individuals present should, as a basis for engaging in the feast offering, have
received the four empowerments for one of the great maṇḍalas of unsurpassable yoga, and
should be maintaining the samayas without letting them decline. They should never separate
the actions of their three gates of body, speech, and mind from the practice of their supreme
deity. Furthermore, unhindered by concepts of accepting and rejecting, affirming and
negating dualistic appearances, they should engage in the conduct within the circle of equality
of the three vajras.

The Offerings

On the relative level of mere illusion, all naturally occurring and arising appearances are
Samantabhadra's offering clouds. The ornamental display of the array of the charnel grounds—boundless
oceans of maṇḍala circles; as many kāyas and pure realms as there are atoms within
every atom, beyond all limit and measure of both time and space; and the endless phenomena
filling the all-encompassing expanse—all these are what is meant by the feast offering.
These are the illustrative samaya substances. The Heruka Galpo states:[23]

Arrange dorjé tsé (dough),[24] galché (sweet curd)Jamdé (butter), datrom (confection),[25] dagyé
(pastries),Tsetri (berries), jagad (alcohol), jagati (meat),Trenmo (supplements),[26]
shamo (fruits), kuntugyü (salt),Āmra (human flesh), günbrum (elephant meat), agaru (horse
meat),Nali (cow meat), gegyé (dog meat), and the like.

Arrange whatever enjoyments you can afford and acquire—principally the substances mentioned
above, and any other sense pleasures—all without stinginess or attachment. In particular,
as stated in the Union Tantra:[27]

The various foodsMade with meat and alcoholAre the greatest delights, the most delectable dish.They
are supreme among the highest samayas.

The Secret Tantra states:

Mahā-māṃsa and amṛtaAre the indispensable siddhi substances.Food, drink, liquor, and fruitsComprise
all the other sense pleasures.

Thus, the most important items are the indispensable food and drink—the madana[28] and bala.[29]
Food is the nature of skillful means and drink is the nature of wisdom. Primordially
pure of the polluting stains of adventitious deluded thought, the five great meats and amṛtas
are therefore, by nature, undefiled wisdom amṛta. Through the meditation on purification,
realization, and increase, they become unstinting offerings and gifts of vajra-amṛita,
from which absolutely everything desired appears.

The Guests

Imagine that the guests of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, who are in essence the natural expression of
primordial wisdom, appear as the maṇḍala circle which, just like the sun and its light, is
not distinguished in terms of higher or lower.

The Outer Feast Offering

To this gathering of guests comprised solely of vīras and yoginīs,[30] the feast offering is
distributed. Violations and breaches of samaya are thereby purified, and the desired siddhis
attained. The act of imagining this constitutes the outer feast offering.

The Inner Feast Offering

As the practitioners partake of the gathered food and drink, they do so with the support of
the external twenty-four sacred places, such as Pullīramalaya at the crown of the head, which
houses the male and female deities within the vīras' skulls. On the inner level they are
supported by the vajra body, with its abiding channels, moving winds, and arranged bindus
all intact. And all the while they see the aggregates, elements, and sense sources as the
circle of the deities of the three seats of completeness.[31]

This should be performed while free from the two extremes—the extreme of the śrāvakas who, bound
by ordinary fixation, are inhibited by their conceptual trainings and are thereby unable
to partake of the gathered food and drink; and the extreme of indulgence, which is to
act carelessly and partake of the gathered food and drink with common desire and craving.

Be advised, your conduct must be appropriate and suited to the context. Thus, free of these
two extremes, you should partake of the food and drink. While doing so, imagine that the caṇḍālī
at the navel melts the bindu at the chakra of great bliss and so on, and that the pure
essence of the union of the white and red essences permeates the entire inside of the
body, thereby pleasing the naturally present deities.[32] This constitutes the inner gathering-offering.

The Secret Feast Offering

While maintaining the three perceptions[33] the wisdom deities are invoked by the sounds and
signs of bliss from the union with a karma- or wisdom-mudrā. At this, the entire field of
accumulation pervading the whole of space is melted by intense passion into the essence of
bodhicitta, and the three-thousandfold universe merges into a state of one taste, as if
it were just a single mustard seed. Through the progression of the four joys, in forward and
reverse order, and distinguished by the four intrinsic natures and the four luminosities,
the experience of illustrative wisdom is attained, thereby making the practitioner fit
and ready to realize ultimate wisdom. This constitutes the secret feast offering.

The Suchness Feast Offering

The subject is unimpeded natural awareness, free from arising, ceasing, and abiding. The object
is emptiness free from conceptual fabrication, beyond all boundaries and extremes. The
natural expression of their primordial union as one great equal taste, all appearances of
saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, is the perfectly present vajra maṇdala, pure and equal in nature. To
be infused with the view that fully comprehends this, free from the three conceptual spheres,
is the suchness feast offering.

Practitioners should be confident in whichever of these views and intents best suits their capacity,
be it higher, middling, or lesser. Even the most elementary practitioners should
train in the manner explained by Lord Marpa:

When partaking of sense pleasures, I visualize myself as the deity.While savoring these exalted
flavors,[34] I maintain the visualization.Though I see these pleasures as food and drink,
I remain fearless,For I am confident in perceiving them as feast offerings.

So, as Lord Marpa taught, you should understand and seal your body as the deity, your speech
as mantra, and your mind as the display of the intrinsic nature. By simply doing that, your
three gates will not remain ordinary. Likewise, do not view the feast substances as ordinary.
Rather, imagine the environment to be the charnel ground Great Mystery's Display,[35]
the buildings to be the celestial palace of great liberation, the inhabitants to be vīras
and yoginīs, and the offerings of samaya substances to be a padma-bhājana[36] filled with
the five meats and five amṛtas. Maintaining this perception is of utmost importance.

Furthermore, when seated in the gathering you should avoid all general and specific negativity
of body, speech, and mind, such as fooling around, quarreling, chattering, and all other
actions that are downfalls of the branch samayas. Partake of the sacred substances as siddhis
with joy and satisfaction, but free from grasping and attachment.

On appropriate occasions, enhance your meditative experience and realization through vajra songs
and dance. Issue the residual with the command[37] to the ḍākinīs who guard the lands,
and take it to the 'feeding pathway of the rākṣasas.'[38] Make dedications and aspirations
to reach the indestructible state through the inner path of the vajra vehicle. Then shower
down a rain of flowers with prayers for auspiciousness, and with the concluding stages
of the practice dissolve all appearances into the formless state. Henceforth, you should
observe the samaya of the great assembly: to serve and respect your fellow practitioners with
the affection suitable among intimate friends and relatives. And, with a constant flow
of natural mindfulness, you should not let your three gates stray from the state of the three
vajras.

VI. The Temporary Benefits of Performing Feast Offerings

The Naturally Arisen Perfection Tantra states:[39]

The virtues of performing feast offeringsAre such that the obscurations of countless past and
future livesWill be purified in a mere instant in the presence of the peaceful and wrathful
deities.

The two obscurations, the habitual tendencies, the general downfalls of transgressing the three
vows, and the particular transgressions of the root and branch samayas of secret mantra
that have been accumulated since time without beginning—all of these are purified and restored.
The tantra continues:

Wherever you are born in your lives to come,You will never lack necessities,The wheel of Dharma
will always turn for you,And you will always have an abundance of wealth,Enjoyments, sustenance,
and belongings.

As the karmic ripening, you will have mastery over a sky-treasury of both spiritual and material
enjoyments. You will be blessed with an excellent environment, pure intentions, and vast
accumulations of merit and wisdom. Such benefits will be reaped not just in your future
lives, but you will experience them in this life too. Moreover, the Vajra Net tantra states:

From among all types of merit, the practice of gaṇacakra is supreme.Through these, all your
aims for this life will be fulfilled,And all negative forces and obstacles pacified.In your
future lives, in the pure realms of victorious vidyādhara,You will reach the level of Samantabhadra.


As stated, all adversities—such as diseases, harmful forces, and hardships—will be pacified,
and your lifespan, merit, and prosperity will increase. The infinite activities of pacifying,
increasing, magnetizing, and subjugating will all be accomplished, just as you desire.
The samayas of the boundless three roots will be fulfilled. The protectors and guardians
of phenomenal appearance will be delighted, all beings of the six classes will be satisfied,
and all siddhis will be effortlessly attained. In short, the benefits are limitless. As
The Two Segments Tantra states:[40]

Whatever is eaten, all the sense pleasuresOf the practitioners will transform into siddhis.


VII. The Ultimate Results

The Naturally Arisen Perfection Tantra continues:

There are also the higher qualities that you will receive:In the intermediate state, you will
recognize your own perception as the wisdoms.[41]Being liberated there, you will remain
on the unchanging ground.Filling the three-thousandfold realm with emanations, you will fulfill
the benefit of beings.Qualities like this you will attain!

By manifesting as the deity in accord with both the ground and fruition, and through engaging
in the conduct of profound passion, the subtle karmic winds are brought into the avadhūti,
the central channel, and thereby confused appearances are forcefully brought to a halt.
The methods of secret mantra are thus swift in effect. By upholding the samaya of the definitive
supreme secret of all the victorious ones, it is possible, through the power of the
blessings of the herukas, and so on, to avert the full ripening of karma. Thus, it is a
powerful aid. Whatever dualistic appearances arise, they are all taken onto the path, without
affirming or negating them. Thus, the conduct is vast. By means of these three factors—being
swift in effect, a powerful aid, and of vast conduct—the view and conduct of unsurpassable
secret mantra is sure to be accomplished by those who maintain pure samayas and remain
free from doubt.

Those of the highest capacity will experience their innate, intrinsic nature dawning from within
while seated in the gathering, and delusion will thereby dissolve without trace. For
those of middling capacity, through the cause of gathering the two accumulations through the
feast offering, they will capture the stronghold of accomplishment after death. For those
of lesser capacity, when the appearances of the intermediate state manifest, they will
be invited to the pure celestial realms by vīras and yoginīs, accompanied by displays of offerings
and a symphony of music. There they will be reassured and uplifted by the vajra-gurus
abiding at the levels of great vidyādharas, and will be established at the supreme state.
The Laghusaṃvara-tantra states:[42]

When practitioners pass away,Glorious herukas and yoginīsWill welcome them with flower-filled
hands.So-called 'death' will greet themWith victory banners and parasols,With symphonies
of musicAnd choruses of song,And will lead them to the celestial realms.

Another tantra states:

By visualizing clearly the wisdom deity,The accumulation of merit is perfected.By understanding
the deity to be like the moon reflected in water,The accumulation of wisdom is perfected.


By practicing the generation stage of the indivisible samaya and wisdom deity, one is led to
the recognition of things exactly as they are, namely that all phenomenal appearances are
primordially perfect as deity and celestial palace. Fixation on ordinary appearances is thereby
cast aside, and the accumulation of vast merit is perfected. By practicing the view
of the natural state of all phenomena, free from all arising, cessation, and abiding, and
by practicing the meditation of great uncontrived naturalness, one arrives at great equality—free
from the bondage and liberation of the extremes of imputation and denigration—and
thus the accumulation of profound wisdom is perfected.

Furthermore, by visualizing the objects of offering as deities, the field of accumulation is
transformed into buddhas. By transforming the samaya substances into vajra-amṛta, objects
cease to be ordinary. By reveling in the dharmatā in the manner of the dharmatā, the mind
is set free from grasping and attachment. Due to these three special factors, the vajra vehicle
of skillful means is distinguished by exceptional insight.

While the vajra vehicle accords with the common vehicle, at the same time it contains practices
of the six perfections which are uniquely profound and vast. These six are: the generosity
of making offerings to guests throughout the whole of space; the discipline of maintaining
samayas and yogic disciplines; the patience of not feeling daunted by the vajra vehicle's
vast skillful means and not being intimidated by its profound insight; the diligence
that serves as a support for all the other perfections; the meditation which focuses on the
melting bliss of the deity's wisdom form; and the wisdom that is utterly free of the three
conceptual spheres. Because these six perfections are so profound and so vast, they actualize,
either in this life or the next, the wisdom kāya of mahāmudrā, the indivisibility
of bliss and emptiness.

Through these exceptional skillful means and exceptional insight,All infused with the imputed—the
ritual,With the dependent—the deity,And with the perfectly present—great wisdom itself,[43]Instantly
the state of union is reached.

Whatever virtue has accrued through my extolling hereThe amazing ways of this supreme secret
mystery,May it empty out the ocean of cyclic existenceSo that all may attain the invincible
three vajras!

At the command of Karma Ngedön Tenpa Rapgyé,[44] sovereign of the three trainings, I, Yönten
Gyatso, one concerned only with the three thoughts,[45] composed this concise explanation
of the feast offering as it is practiced by tantric practitioners these days, at the seat
of Palpung. May virtue and excellence increase!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2020 (trans. Laura Dainty and Stefan Mang, ed. Libby Hogg and
Rosie Bleyer). First published on Lotsawa House, 2021.