Prayer for Peace and Stability in Tibet
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thaye

kyabné lumé könchok tsawa sum
Unfailing sources of refuge—Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha, and gurus, yidams and ḍākinīs,
khyepar gangchen gönpo chenrezik
And especially Avalokiteśvara, protector of the Land of Snows,
jetsün drolma guru pema jung
Together with Noble Tārā and Guru Padmasambhava,
solwa deb so tukdam shyalshyé gong
We pray to you: think of us and the sacred pledges you have made!
mönlam yongsu drubpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings, so that our prayers of aspiration may be fulfilled entirely.

nyikdü dro nam samjor lokpa dang
Beings of this degenerate age think and act in perverse ways,
chinang jungwa trukpé gyukyen gyi
And disturbances in the elements, both outer and inner,
ngar madrakpa mi chuk dalyam né
Mean that disease and pestilence, unknown in ages past, threaten human beings and animals alike.
za lu gyal dön nakchok jungpö zer
Planetary forces, nāgas, gyalpo, obstructing spirits and elemental forces,
tsa sé ser sum lonyé maktruk tsö
Cause blight, frost and hail, poor harvests, war and conflict,
charchu minyom gangchen dra jé ten
Untimely rains and ominous portents for the Land of Snows,
sayö mé dra jung shyi jikpa dang
And there is fear of earthquakes, fire, adversaries, and environmental catastrophe,
khyepar ten la tsewé tamak sok
And especially of foreign invaders who might harm the teachings.
gangchen jong dir nö tsé rik tadak
May all types of harm and violence in these snowy lands,
nyurdu shyi shying tsené jom gyur chik
Be swiftly pacified and eliminated entirely.

mi dang mimin drowa tadak gi
May precious sublime bodhicitta
gyü la changchub sem chok rinpoche
Arise naturally in the minds of all beings, human and non-human alike,
ngang gi kyé né nö tsé samjor dral
So that they never again think or act in harmful, violent ways.
pentsün jampé sem dangden né kyang
May the minds of all be filled with love for one another!
böyul ta ü dekyi pal gyi jor
May the whole of Tibet enjoy abundant splendours, happiness and wellbeing!
sangye tenpa dargyé yün né shok
And may the Buddha’s teachings flourish and endure!

tsa sum gyalwa sé ché denpé tob
Through the force of the truth embodied in the Three Roots, the Buddhas and their heirs,
khordé gewé tsawa gang chi dang
And through the power of all the sources of merit throughout saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
dakchak lhaksam nampar karwé tü
And of our own completely pure, positive intention,
soltab mönpé drebu drub gyur chik
May this, our prayer of aspiration, be fulfilled!

The precious master Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo said, “These are extremely turbulent times and there
is no telling what will happen. I am praying for peace and stability in Tibet six times
each day, and it is important for you to do the same.” So it was that I, Lodrö Thaye, wrote
this down as a personal reminder, in Tsadra Rinchen Drak on a propitious morning during
the waxing phase of the twelfth month.
Yathā siddhirastu!

Version: 1.2-20211004