The Cascading Essence of Great Bliss
An Empowerment Ritual for the Female Practice of the Queen of Great Bliss, from the Heart Essence
of the Vast Expanse
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Taye

Namo guru-jñāna-ḍākinīye!
The all-pervading space of reality imbued with threefold liberationGives birth, interdependently,
to all the victorious ones. It appears in the form of the Vajra Queen,Who is the pure
vital essence.1
For those fortunate ones who wish to travel quickly and easilyTo the Celestial Vajra CityBased
on the profound and swift path of Mantra,I here set out this abbreviated ritual as a three-part
guide.
This means of guiding disciples in the maṇḍala of the Female Awareness-Holder, The Queen of
Great Bliss, from the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse has three parts: 1) the preliminaries,
2) the main part and 3) the conclusion.
1. The Preliminaries
On an excellent occasion, such as the tenth day of the waning moon,2 arrange a support with
beautifully arranged adornments in your dwelling place. In the centre, place an altar with
a cover.
Upon it, arrange a maṇḍala made of coloured sand or cloth, crescent shaped, red in colour and
with one entrance. Facing the front, in the centre there should be a red dharmodaya marked
with the syllable vaṃ. The outside is made of rainbow light and surrounded by a vajra enclosure
and mountains of fire.
If you do not manage to gather this, create the maṇḍala with a single heap of red flowers. Upon
it, on a small platform, place an authentic skullcup filled with alcohol, dharma medicine
and the twenty-five vase substances, and cover it with a red silk scarf that is folded
eight times.
Coat a mirror with sindūra; draw a crossed dharmodaya and, in the centre of a coil of joy, a
tāṃ syllable.
Starting from the front, clockwise, draw the syllables ha, ri, ni and sa, whose upper part should
be drawn facing outward, on the four coils of joy. On top of it place a bell with a
canopy of red cloth. Arrange the activity vase in the North-East.
Arrange medicine, torma and rakta in the front and on the outside place the two waters and the
regular offerings, arranged anti-clockwise.
Also gather other things needed for the empowerment, such as blindfolds and flowers, and the
articles needed for the activities, such as the preliminary torma for the obstructing forces,
feast-offerings and an offering torma.
2. The Main Part
1. Practising for the Sake of Granting the Empowerment
Here, as there is little need for elaborate practices, they can be disregarded. The main practice
text should be preceded only by the lineage prayers. Recite the refuge and bodhicitta
from the main practice and the expulsion of obstructive forces and meditation on the protective
tent according to the Vidyādhara Assembly.3 Then recite the activity manual from the
blessing of the offerings up to and including the praise. If you are able to clearly visualize
ordinary appearances as the maṇḍala of the ḍākinī, it is permissible to omit the elaborations
of the self- and front-visualizations. But if you are someone with inferior realization,
add phaṭ jaḥ to the root mantra and open the recitation palace at the place of
the altar in front. First do the visualizations for the mantra recitation according to the
activity manual. Then, accumulate as much as you can of the palanquin recitation in which
the chief deities of the self- and front-visualization are connected.
rangjung dekyong gi bumpa chinö shyalyé khang nangchü yeshe khandrö kyilkhor du salwé ku lé
dorjé dütsi gyün babpé bumpa gangwar gyur
Visualize the outside of the vase of the naturally arisen kapāla4 as the palace and its contents,
the maṇḍala of wisdom ḍākinīs. A stream of indestructible ambrosia flows from their
bodies and fills the vase.
After the recitation of the vase is completed, carry out the offerings and praise.
lé bum tsennyi yongsu dzokpé nang du pema dang nyimé den la wangchen tamdrin marpo tö yuk char
shying dikdzub drengwa
Within the activity vase, which is perfect in its characteristics, upon a lotus and sun-disk
seat, is the mighty Hayagrīva, red in colour, brandishing a skull-mace and raising his hand
in the threatening mudrā.
trowö ché tamché dang denpé kur gyur
His form has all the accoutrements of a wrathful deity.
om benza krodha hayagriva hulu hulu hung pé
oṃ vajra-krodha-hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
Recite the mantra about a hundred times, and then fill the two vases with the offering water
from the conch.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Visualize:
bumpé lha ö du shyu né bum chü dang yermé du gyur
The deities of the vase melt into light and merge indivisibly with the contents of the vase.
Recite the blessing of the feast-offerings up to and including the confession, and then receive
the self-initiation elaborately. If you can't manage this, cast the flower of awareness
and give the students permission to enter.
2. The Main Section: The Actual Empowerment
This has two parts: 1) the entrance, and 2) the empowerment
1. The Entrance
Purify the students who are waiting outside with water from the activity vase. Give the torma
to the obstructing forces, expel them and meditate on the protection circle. Throw the flower,
distribute it and recite and visualize the refuge and bodhicitta. Then explain the
history of this particular Dharma teaching.
dé la dir kabsu babpé cheja gyalwa tamché kyepé yum chok kyilkhor rabjam gyatsö ngadak yingchuk
dorjé tsünmo la dulja gang dul gyi nampar nangwé tsen dang kü köpa sam gyi mi khyabpa
ngawa lé gangchen kyegu yong kyi gön du yeshe khandrö tsomo dorjé naljorma nyi khar chen rik
kyi tikler samshyin sipa zung né drubpé gopang tönpor shekpé tsul ten
The following is to be explained on this occasion: The Vajra Queen Dhātviśvarī is the supreme
Mother who gives birth to all the buddhas, the sovereign of an infinite ocean of maṇḍalas.
She emanates in forms and names beyond the imagination in order to tame disciples according
to their needs. In order to protect all beings of the snowy land of Tibet, the chief
of wisdom ḍākinīs, Vajrayoginī herself, took birth intentionally as the Lady of the Kharchen
family, displaying a high level of realization.
sangye nyipa guru pemé sangwé zungmar dzé ching sang ngak ké dzö dzinpa bö kham yong la dü sum
du takpar kyongwé kadrin guru nyi dang nyampa
She became the secret consort of the master Padmasambhava, the second Buddha, and the keeper
of the treasury of the teachings of Secret Mantra. With her constant protection the realm
of Tibet in the past, present and future, her kindness is equal to that of the master himself.
sangwé dakmo yeshe tsogyal la ten né ngödrub nampa nyi drubpé tab zabmö terkha ngachi nam su
gyacher jönpa lé dir ni chögyal tri dé dang lhasé chok drub gyalpo zungdu jukpé namrol dzogpachenpo
rangnang rimé kyi gongpé tsal chen dzokpé rigdzin chenpo jikme lingpa am longchen
namkhé naljor la ösal ying kyi drom bu né rangjung rigpé tsal gyi gya trolwé dzé du mé
pé tuk ter chenpo dolwé nangtsen drakda tsogyal latso né khandrö tsok kyi jemo nyi kyi yeshe
kyi ku ngö su ten né jesu dampar dzepa rigdzin düpé yum ka khandro dechen gyalmö kyilkhor
du wang dang jinlab jesu nangwa nam chabchik drubpar gyiwa
There have been a great many treasures, both in the past and more recently, based on Yeshe Tsogyal,
the sovereign of secrets; all of them profound methods that enable one to attain the
two accomplishments. The practice we are concerned with here was revealed by the great
vidyādhara Jigme Lingpa, a sky-like yogin of the vast expanse, an emanation of both the Dharma
King Trisong Detsen and the prince Chokdrup Gyalpo,5 in whom the magnificent potential
of the wisdom intent of the naturally manifesting, unbiased Great Perfection was fully realized.
When Jigme Lingpa was at Tsogyal Latso lake near Drakda, the Lady herself, chief
among the hosts of ḍākinīs, arose from the lake and revealed to him her wisdom body in actuality.
Compared to all these other practices, this practice is unique in that the empowerment,
the blessing and the permission blessing of the maṇḍala of the ḍākinī Queen of Great
Bliss, the Female Practice of the Vidyādhara Assembly, are accomplished together.
Having related the history in such a way, offer a maṇḍala.
Once you have completed this preambular section in the usual way, continue with:
om tsakshu bhenda varamanaya hung
oṃ cakṣu bhandha vāra maṇāya hūṃ
With this, the students put on the blindfold.
ah kham bira hung
ah khaṃ vīra hūṃ
With this, they are given the flower.
The Request
lama dang kyilkhor gyi tsomo yer machipa la miché depé dungshuk drakpö talmo metok dangché té
solwa debpa di jé dö dzö
While holding the flower with folded hands, pray with unshakeable faith and intense longing
to the master, who is indivisible from the principal deity of the maṇḍala, and repeat the
following:
künkhyen yeshe pungpo chan
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom,
sipé khorlo nam jongwe
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence—
dering shepé rinchen ter
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
tsowö dak la kadrin tsol
Of which you have spoken today.6
Three times.
Taking Refuge
tokmar gyü nampar dakpar jawé ledu
Initially, to purify your mind,
lobpön dang yingchuk dechen gyalmo rabjam gyalwa shyitrö kyilkhor gyi tsok nam la dak sok semchen
tamché nyingpo changchub chenpor chi kyi bardu go sum güpa chenpö kyab su drowé dünpé
di jé dö
Arouse a yearning to take refuge in the master, Dhātviśvarī The Queen of Great Bliss, and the
infinite hosts of the maṇḍala of peaceful and wrathful deities, with fervent devotion and
with body, speech and mind, until you and all sentient beings reach the heart of great awakening.
Repeat the following:
namo, kyemé yeshe khandrö ku
Namo! Unborn, primordial wisdom is the body of the ḍākinī;
gakmé rangjung naljorma
Unceasing, naturally arisen is the yoginī;
gyalyum dorjé pakmo la
Mother of all the buddhas, Vajravārāhī,
dudral mepar kyab su chi
In you, beyond union and separation, I take refuge.
Three times.
Arousing Bodhicitta
khakhyab kyi pamar gyurpé kyegu tadak gyal kün kyepé yum chok dorjé tsünmö gopang la göpar ja
| dé chirdu yeshe khandrö kyilkhor nyenpo dir shyuk té lam gyi naljor zabmo la tsön té drebu
tartukpar gyi o nyam du semkyepa di jé dö
With the thought, “In order to bring all mother- and father-like beings throughout the whole
of space to the level of the Vajra Queen, the supreme Mother who gives birth to all the buddhas,
I will enter this awesome maṇḍala of the wisdom ḍākinī, exert myself in the profound
practice of the path and reach its ultimate fruition", arouse the mind set upon awakening
and repeat the following:
ho, di né changchub matob bar
Hoḥ! From now until I attain awakening,
yeshe khandro khyö drub né
I will practise you, the wisdom ḍākinī. Once I have accomplished your practice,
chokri dralwé semchen nam
I will establish all beings, impartially,
dechen sa la göpar gyi
In great bliss.
Three times.
Eight Branch Offering
sak jong pel sum gyi nyingpor gyurpa gyün shak yenlak gyepa tsik gi jesu dön drenpé ting ngé
dzin dang denpé di jé dö
The essence of accumulating and increasing merit and purifying negativity is the practice of
the eight branches, so concentrate, remember the meaning after saying the words, and repeat
the following:
dorjé lobpön sangye pal
I prostrate to the vajra master,
dü sum shyuk la chaktsal lo
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!

chok sum tenpé shying gyur la
With a mind free from all duality,
nyimé yi kyi kyab su chi
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!

ngöjor yi kyi namtrulpé
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
dakpé chöpa shyé su sol
Both actual and envisioned.

ngödrub chuwo chöpé gek
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
nyejé malü shakpar gyi
I confess without exception.

chok chu khor sum dakpé chö
In all those actions, throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
machak chö la jé yirang
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!

dakpé ta shyi drimamé
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
dzokpé changchub semkyé do
Pure, untainted by the four extremes.7

deshek wangchuk semchen la
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings8
göpa sum chir lü bul lo
I offer my body for the threefold purpose.9

tserab drangpé gewa nam
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
dü né changchub chok tu ngo
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Three times.
Accepting the Samayas
wang gi soktsa damtsik dang dompa zungwa la raklé pé damcha nampa sum tenpor zungwa di jé dö
Since the lifeline of the empowerment depends on the samayas and vows, you must firmly adopt
the three sets of vows. Repeat the following:
dewar shekpa khyé chindra
Bliss Gone One,10 whatever you are like,
dendra khonar dak gyur shok
May I become exactly the same,
chöpa mejung samyé pa
And carry out wondrous, inconceivable actions
dro la pen chir dak gi ché
In order to bring benefit to beings.
changchub sem chok dampa dang
The vows of the supreme mind set upon awakening
ku sung tuk kyi chakgya ni
And the mudrās of body, speech and mind,
sok gi chir yang mi tong na
Even at the cost of my own life, I shall not forsake.
dorjé gyalpö jin lab dzö
Vajra king, inspire me with your blessings.
Three times.
dené rigpa deshek nyingpö ngowo nyi lobpön gyi chak la jü né tsok gyé loburwé ten tiklé nyakchik
pé gor tripar mö shik
Imagine that, by the hands of the master, your eight adventitious consciousnesses are led to
the sole entrance of the single sphere,11 awareness, the essence of your buddha nature.
a kham bira hung
aḥ khaṃ bīra hūṃ
Recite this three times and enter the maṇḍala.
Paying Homage
kyilkhor gyi lha la ku sung tuk kyi chak jawar möpé talmo né sum du jor la di jé dö
Imagining that you prostrate yourself—physically, vocally and mentally—before the deities of
the maṇḍala, fold your hands and, while touching your three places, repeat the following:
om nama té hung
oṃ namas te hūṃ
om nama mi hung
oṃ nama mi hūṃ
om namo nama hung
oṃ namo nama hūṃ
Three times.
The Visualization
dené sé su drubpa la mikpa ditar gom shik
Then, aim to become an offspring of the buddhas and meditate as follows.
jetsün dorjé naljormé dündu wang tek pema dab gyé la rangnyi khöpé tsowo dang rikdak gi tukka
né ram yik marpo dewé daknyi chen du jungwé künshyi tsok gyé dang chepé nammin gyi pungpo
jang
Imagine that you place yourself before the venerable Vajrayoginī, upon an empowerment platform
in the form of a lotus with eight petals. From the heart of the main deity and the Lord
of the Families arises a red raṃ syllable, the nature of bliss, which purifies the ripened
aggregates, including the eight consciousnesses such as the all-ground consciousness.
nampar shepa tam yik tu gyurpa rikdak gi shyal du drong | kü yib gyü | yum gyi kha sang du lhung
Your consciousness transforms into a tāṃ syllable, enters the mouth of the Lord of the Families,
flows through his body, and enters the secret space of the consort.
shyudé dang nyisumepé changchub kyi sem su gyurpa ngar gyi wang tek la khöpar gyurpé möpa dzö
It transforms into bodhicitta, indivisible from the melting bliss, and is then placed upon the
empowerment platform referred to above.
dené wang gi shyi göpa yeshepa wabpa yinpé khyerang nam go sum gyi né lekpar chün la mikpa di
tsechik tu gom shik
Then, the basis for the empowerment is established by bringing down the wisdom. Direct your
physical, vocal and mental energy into meditating one-pointedly on the following visualization:
ö kyi nampé tong zuk lé
Out of empty form, which has the character of light,
khandro dechen gyalmo ni
Arises the ḍākinī Queen of Great Bliss.
shyal chik chak nyi kudok mar
She has one face and two hands; her body is red in colour.
chermo nyampé dortab chen
She is naked, standing in the posture of equanimity, yet ready to act.
shintu chak dang shyepé shyal
Passionate and smiling,
chak yé töpé chang te’u
In her right hand she holds a small skull-drum
nyen gyi tekar tö ching trol
That is raised and played close to her ear.
yönpa driguk yuwa ni
In her left hand she holds a hooked knife, the handle
ku la ten né chok du gying
Resting on her hip; her bearing is imposing and graceful.
bhaga gyé shing numa bur
Her bhaga is expanded and her breasts swell.
rinpoché dang shyönnü gyen
She is adorned with jewels and youthful ornaments
pundariké doshal chang
And wears a garland of white lotus flowers.
rüpé gyen druk ku la dzé
The six bone ornaments adorn her body,
nak num utré lentsar chen
Her black, glistening hair is plaited,
rinpoché yi tsé dren ji
And her jewelled diadem shines majestically.
umé chen ni ying la zik
Her central eye gazes into all-encompassing space.
longkü chen gyi drowa dul
Her sambhogakāya eye tames beings.
tulkü chen gyi kham sum guk
Her nirmāṇakāya eye summons the three realms.

ku la gyüdé kyilkhor dzok
In her body the maṇḍalas of all the classes of tantra are perfectly complete.
bumtrak yangpé khandrö kor
She is surrounded by a vast assembly of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs.
tukkar arya taré ma
In her heart is Lady Ārya Tārā.
jangngön shyal chik chak nyi tsul
Blue-green in colour, with one face and two hands.
dé yi tukkar yeshe kyi
In her heart is the wisdom deity Vārāhī,
pakmo nak num dri töchen
Shiny black in colour and holding a hooked knife and skull-cup.
sempa sum tsek né nga ru
These are the three nested beings;12 your five places
chaktsen nga dang sabön ngé
Are marked by the five implements and the five seed syllables.
tsenpa dé lé ö tröpé
From them, light radiates out
womin né dang khachö shying
To The Unsurpassed,13 the celestial realms,
yu lo kö dang pema ö
The Land of Turquoise Leaves and the Realm of Lotus Light,
rangshyin né né yeshepa
Inviting the wisdom deities from their homes.
drang té nyisumepar tim
They dissolve into you, becoming inseparable.
Descent of Blessing
Visualize in this manner, make the air fragrant with substances for the descent of blessing,
play the skull-drum, and chant the following invocation in a melodious voice:
hum, yul gyi ming ni gyagar yul
Hūṃ! In the country known as India
né kyi chokgyur orgyen ne
Lies the supreme sacred land of Uḍḍiyāna,
dhumatala khandrö drong
As well as Dhumathala, its citadel of ḍākinīs,
ling gi ling chok ngayab ling
And also Cāmaradvīpa, supreme isle of isles.
dön la womin dechen shying
In reality they are the Unsurpassed, the pure realm of great bliss,
nampa khachö trulpé ne
Yet they appear as emanated celestial realms.
gyé shing shyukpé yul kün ne
From all those places where you joyfully reside,
chöku yumchen tsogyalma
Great dharmakāya mother Tsogyal,
bumtrak khandrö khor dang che
Together with your retinue of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs,
jingyi lab chir shek su sol
Come! Inspire me with your blessings—
né chok diru jinpob la
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
drub chok dak la wang shyi kur
Grant me, a supreme practitioner, the four empowerments!
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel obstructing forces, corrupting influences and hindrances!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant me the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
om pemo yogini taré tuttaré turé jnana varahi pem pem
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī pheṃ pheṃ
Recite this fiercely and invoke the blessing until your body quivers and trembles.
detar wabpé yeshepé jinlab go sum la rabtu nepar jepa mö shik
Imagine that the blessing of the wisdom deity remains united with your body, speech and mind.
tishta benza
tiṣṭha vajra
Perform the mudrā of the crossed vajra.
ngar jinpé metok denyi lhakpé lha la bulwé möpé metok kyilkhor du dor shyindu di jé dö
Imagine that you offer the flower, which you were given earlier, to the superior deity, casting
it onto the maṇḍala. Repeat the following:
pratitsa benza ho
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
While saying this, throw the flower onto the exhibited maṇḍala.14
metok kyilkhor tsomö u la pokpa denyi chak gi shyé té lar yang khyerang nam la wang tak chöpen
gyi tsul du chiwor chingpé lhakpé lha lé yeshe kyi ku nyipa trö té timpar mö shik
Imagine that the flower touches the head of the chief deity of the maṇḍala and that she takes
it with her hand. Once again, it is placed on your head, like a crown, the symbol of power.
From the superior deity a second wisdom deity emanates and dissolves into you.
pratitsa benza ho
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
With this, cast the flower.
prati ghrihana imam sato maha bala
prati gṛhṇa imam satva mahābala
With this, place the flower on your head.
marikpé drib yok mik dar dang lhenchik salwar mö shik
Imagine that while you remove the blindfold the obscurations of ignorance are removed.
tsakshu prabeshaya pé
cakṣu praveśaya phaṭ
With this, remove the blindfold.
trulpa zuknyen gyi kyilkhor ten dang tenpa yeshe khandrö kü ying su gyüdé kyilkhor tsombü tsul
du dzokpa ché
Within the illusory, manifested maṇḍala consisting of the palace and the deities residing in
the space of the wisdom ḍākinī’s body, the maṇḍalas of the various tantra sections are grouped
together, present in their entirety.
ngönsum shyindu tongwar gyurpar mö la depa dang trowa kyé dzö
Imagine that you see them in actuality, inspiring faith and enthusiasm.
dedak gi kyilkhor du jukpé rimpa nam drubpa lak
With these, the stages for entering the maṇḍala are complete.
shyuk né ngönpar wangkurwa shyuwé yön du mandal pul
Having entered, offer a maṇḍala in order to request the actual empowerment.
The Request
solwa debpa di jé dö
Repeat the following prayer:
changchub dorjé sangye la
As the Vajra of Enlightenment bestowed
chö chen jitar tsalpa tar
The supreme worship on the Buddhas,
dak kyang yongsu kyobpé chir
Bestow it now upon me,
namkhé dorjé deng dak tsol
O Vajra Space, for my salvation.15
Three times.
2. The Actual Empowerment
This has four parts
1. Vase Empowerment
kyilkhor gyi tsomö tukka né trulpé lhamo nam kyi rangjung dekyong gi bumpa dorjé dütsi gangwa
tok té khyerang nam kyi chiwo né lukpé nyönmong dang shejé drima tor ching sangwa sum gyi
yeshe gyü la lukpar mö shik
Visualize as follows. Imagine that goddesses emanate from the heart of the principal deity of
the maṇḍala, filling the naturally arisen kapāla vase with ambrosia and holding it aloft.
They pour ambrosia upon your head, which dispels the emotional and cognitive stains and
fills you with the wisdom of the three secrets.
Place the skull-vase on their heads.
ho, sang ngak damtsik lana me
Hoḥ. The unsurpassable samayas of Secret Mantra
rangjung lhündrub bumpé wang
Of the naturally arisen, spontaneously present vase empowerment,
sangye kün gyi sang sum gyi
The sacred empowerment of the three secrets of all the buddhas—
wangkur dampa khyö la jin
I bestow upon you!
om pemo yogini taré tuttaré turé jnana varahi kalasha abhikintsa hum
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī kalaśābhiṣiñca hūṃ
dé bumpé wang tob
With this, you have received the vase empowerment.
lü kyi lé dang tsé dribpa dak
Karma of the body and obscurations of the channels are purified.
ku dorjé jinlab shyuk
The blessing of the vajra-body has entered you.
kyerim gyi nö du gyur
You have become a suitable vessel for generation phase practice.
nammin rigdzin gyi sabön teb
The seed of the matured vidyādhara has been planted within you.
tulkü gopang tobpé kalpa gyü la shyakpa yin no
You have gained the fortune to realize the nirmāṇakāya.
2. Secret Empowerment
dütsi di nyi lama yabyum gyi changsem ngö su sam la yum gyi kha sang né langpar mö né drinpar
nyangpé tsa kham dewé khyabpar mö shik
Imagine that this ambrosia is the actual bodhicitta of the master and his consort, and that
you receive it from the consort’s secret space. As you taste it [with your tongue], it passes
through your throat and fills your channels and elements with bliss.
Give the ambrosia of the vase and say:
ho, changchub sem kyi damtsik ni
Hoḥ. The samaya of bodhicitta
tsa kham yigé khorlor tim
Dissolves into the circle of syllables in the channels and elements.
jöpamé lé tamché kye
Everything arises from the inexpressible state.
drak tong sung gi wang tob shog
May you obtain the speech empowerment of sound-emptiness.
Recite the root mantra supplemented with:
bodhitsitta abhikintsa hum
bodhicittābhiṣiñca hūṃ
dé jedrel du depé lung jinpa la
Following this imagine that, for the transmission of the mantra recitation,
dünkyé kyi tukka né ngak treng jung
The mantra garland arises from the heart of the front visualization
khyerang nam kyi shyal du shyuk
And enters into your mouth.
tukké sabön la khorwar sam la tsa ngak len sum du jé dö dzö
It revolves around the syllable at your heart. Repeat the root mantra three times.
Distribute the mālā.16
om pemo yogini taré tuttaré turé jnana varahi hum
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī hūṃ
Three times.
metok gi trengwa ré pulwar möpé di jé dö
Imagine that you offer flower garlands and repeat the following:
chomden dak gi zung lak kyi
Blessed One, I will follow you.
dak la nyewar dzé du sol
Please take care of me.
Three times.
metok trengwa lar yang chiwor chingpar mö shik
Imagine that once again the flower garland is bound on your head.
While placing the flower on your head:
chomden di la tsal lak kyi
Blessed One, bestow the empowerment
di la gowar dzé du sol
And your command upon them.
ngak kyi ngödrub tsal né kyang
Bestow the accomplishment of Secret Mantra
tulshyuk tenpar dzé du sol
And make their yogic conduct stable.
Three times.
dé sangwé wang tob
With this you have received the secret empowerment.
ngak gi lé dang lung gi dribpa dak
Karma of the speech and obscurations of the wind-energy are purified.
sung dorjé jinlab shyuk
The blessing of vajra-speech has entered you.
dejö kyi nö du gyur
You have become a suitable vessel for mantra recitation.
tsewang rigdzin gyi sabön teb
The seed of the vidyādhara with power over life is planted within you.
longchö dzokpé gopang gi kalpa gyü la shyakpa yin no
You have gained the fortune to realize the saṃbhogakāya.
3. Knowledge Wisdom Empowerment
gawa shyi daknyi sindhuré ten drilbü tenpa dang chepa chak tu tepé tabshé drelwé tarpa tenpar
mö la
Place the support—sindūra, which has the nature of the four joys—and the supported—the bell—
in the hands of the students. Consider that these are the supports that show liberation,
where skilful means and insight are united.
ho, yeshe nampa tamchepa
Hoḥ. The primordial wisdom in which all qualities are complete
gawa shyi la yangdak ten
Depends entirely on the four joys.
tabshé drelwé damtsik gi
The samaya in which skilful means and insight are united,
chakgya chenpo khyö kyi long
The great mudrā, you should enjoy.
dza hung bam ho
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
shyepé rolpa chenpö damtsik dang
This is the samaya of great enjoyment.
a ho maha sukha dewé tab jepé lhenkyé la ngepa tenpar mö shik
Consider that with 'a ho mahāsukhaḥ' bliss is used as the skilful means through which innate
bliss is stabilized definitively.
Sindūra is applied to the hearts of the students.
dé sherab yeshe kyi wang tob
With this, you have received the insight-wisdom empowerment.
yi kyi lé dang tiklé dribpa dak
Karma of the mind and obscurations of the essences are purified.
tuk dorjé jinlab shyuk
The blessing of vajra-mind has entered you.
detong tsenda li nö du gyur
You have become a suitable vessel for the bliss-emptiness of caṇḍāli practice.
chakgyé rigdzin gyi sabön teb
The seed of the mahāmudrā vidyādhara is planted within you.
chökü gopang gi kalpa gyü la shyakpa yin no
You have gained the fortune to realize the dharmakāya.
4. The Ultimate Empowerment
drilbu trolwé dra la rigpa tö la
Focus your awareness on the sound of the ringing bell
tab lé jungwé pé yeshe kyi kyang mi tsönpé chönyi la nyampar shyok chik
And rest in the nature of reality, which cannot be illustrated even by the example wisdom that
arises on the basis of skilful means.
ho, dra ni drakpa nyi né tong
Hoḥ. Sound is audible, yet empty.
deshyin sem la ngowo me
Likewise, mind is devoid of essence.
ngowo mepé neluk la
In the essenceless natural state
taja pang né yangdak to
Abandon the ‘looked at’ and perfectly look.
a ah
a aḥ
Ring the bell. Both the master and students focus their awareness on its sound and remember
the meaning of non-arising.
dé tsik gi tsönpa döndam gyi wang tob
As indicated by these words, you have received the ultimate empowerment.
künshyi lé dang shejé dribpa jang
Karma of the all-ground and cognitive obscurations are purified.
yeshe dorjé jinlab shyuk
The blessing of vajra-wisdom has entered you.
kadak dzogpachenpö nö du gyur
You have become a suitable vessel for the primordial purity of the Great Perfection.
lhündrub rigdzin gyi sabön teb
The seed of the spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara is planted within you.
ngowo nyi kü gopang gi kalpa gyü la shyakpa yin no
You have gained the fortune to realize the svabhāvikakāya.
3. The Conclusion
The concluding stages of the empowerment:
detar rigdzin yum ka dechen gyalmö kyilkhor du wangkur jinlab jenang gi rimpa chabchik tu drubpa
yinpé khyepar né kyi damtsik didak sok tar sungwé lö di jé dö
The stages of the empowerment, blessing and permission-blessing of the maṇḍala of the Female
Awareness Holder the Queen of Great Bliss have thus been simultaneously accomplished. Now,
with intention to guard the crucial samayas as if your life depended on it, repeat the following:
wang shyi dzokpé damtsik tu
As samaya commitments for having received the four empowerments,
dorjé lobpön mi pang shying
I pledge never to abandon the vajra master,
mar ngö tsé chu gyün mi che
To observe continually the twenty-fifth day of the lunar calendar,17
shyönnuma la nyenkur ja
To honour and respect young women,
taktu changchub sem nyi gom
And always to cultivate twofold bodhicitta.
Three times.
dorjé tekpé damtsik chi dang jedrakpa tadak tsulshyin zung shying sungwé dünpé di jé dö
Vowing to flawlessly protect and uphold all the general and particular samayas of the vajra
vehicle, repeat the following.
tsowö jitar ka tsalpa
Whatever the guru, chief of the maṇḍala, commands,
dedak tamché dak gi gyi
I shall carry out—each and every instruction.
khyö la dak kyang yongsu bul
I offer myself entirely to you.
lobmar zung né ché du sol
Accept me as your student and I will follow your words in detail.
Offer a maṇḍala out of gratitude.
Offer your body:
deng né tsam té dak dren du
From this moment on,
khyé la dak ni bul lak na
I offer myself to you as a servant.
khyé kyi lobmar zungwa dang
Please take me as your disciple
chashé kyang ni ché du sol
And make use of every bit of me.
Perform the dedication of merit.
Finish the sādhana with the concluding stages of activities, beginning with the feast-offering
and dedicating the remainder offering, up to and including the dedication, the aspiration
prayer and prayer of auspiciousness.
Through this merit, may I follow the profound path to its very end,Be cared for by the powerful
yoginī,And through the dance of indestructible great blissMay I travel to the supreme
celestial city!

Without diverging from the root text and the intent of the founder of this tradition, I, Pema
Garwang Lodrö Tayé, composed this much needed text in a clear and concise manner. May virtue
and excellence abound!

| Translated by Han Kop and reviewed by Josh Capitanio, for the Longchen Nyingtik Project, 2021.
With many thanks to Tulku Dawa Zangpo and Khenpo Sonam Tsewang for their clarifications.

Source: 'Jigs med gling pa. "'klong chen snying gi thig le las/ yum bka' bde chen rgyal mo'i
dbang gi chog bsgrigs bde chen bcud 'bebs", in klong chen snying thig rtsa pod. 5 Vols. BDRC
W1KG13585. Bodhnath, Kathmandu and Bodhgaya, Bihar: Shechen Publications, 1994. Vol. 4:
831–846.
↑ Khenpo Sonam Tsewang remarks that the vital essence (tikle; thig le) refers to absolute reality,
which in turn is the Vajra Queen.↑ I.e., the 25th day of the lunar calendar, often
referred to as ḍākinī day.↑ Tib. Rigdzin Düpa↑ Tib. bde skyong. Literally, a ‘bliss-sustainer’,
a synonym that probably derives from a Sanskrit etymology of the word kapāla.↑ I.e.,
Gyalse Lharje.↑ This verse seems to be from the Tantra The Beginning Chapter of the Supremely
Great Vajra (rdo rje dpal mchog chen po brtag pa dang po, Toh 453).↑ Jigme Lingpa explains
these as the four extremes of existence and non-existence, eternalism and annihilationism.↑
Jigme Lingpa explains that the sugatas referred to here are the buddhas of the past;
the mighty lords are the gurus, the buddhas of the present; and sentient beings are the
buddhas of the future, since they all possess the buddha-nature or sugatagarbha.↑ As Jigme
Lingpa explains, one offers to the buddhas of the past in order to bring about the actualization
of their inexhaustible qualities of the body, speech, mind, qualities and activities;
one offers to the buddhas of the present in order to become a suitable vessel for the
perfect wisdom of all the tathāgatas and to attain fruition through their empowerment and
blessings; and one offers to the buddhas of the future in order to create the auspicious
circumstances for attaining the fruition of the great vehicle and fully perfecting the benefit
of others.↑ Skt. Sugata.↑ Tikle nyakchik (thig le nyag gcig).↑ The three nested beings
are the commitment being (Skt. samayasattva), the wisdom being (Skt. jñānasattva) and the
meditation being (Skt. Samādhisattva).↑ Skt. Akaniṣṭha↑ Khenchen Pema Sherab explains that
‘drim-kyil’ (‘grim dkyil) refers to the maṇḍala that is shown around by the ritual master
(chöpön) to all the students. They then cast their flower upon that maṇḍala.↑ This verse
is from the Guhyasamāja Tantra, Chapter 16, verse 41. We have followed the translation of
Fremantle, Francesca, ''A Critical Study of the Guhyasamāja Tantra'', Ph.D. dissertation,
University of London (1971). See page 115 for the English and page 359 for the critical
edition of this verse. The Sanskrit is as follows: bodhivajreṇa buddhānāṃ yathā datto mahāmahaḥ
/ mamāpi trāṇanārthāya khavajrādya dadāhi me /.↑ Tulku Dawa explains that in the past
the guru would offer a mālā to the students, but this is no longer the custom.↑ Literally,
the tenth day of the waning moon, commonly referred to as ‘ḍākinī day’.