The Prayer of the Tenth Days in Guru Rinpoche’s Life Story entitled ‘The Nucleus of Blessings’
by Jamgön Kongtrul

om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
sangye nangwa tayé ku lé trul
Emanation of the enlightened body of Buddha Amitābha,
drodul chenrezik wang sung gi ö
Light of the enlightened speech of Lord Avalokiteśvara, tamer of beings,
gyalsé kün gyi tuk kyi sangwa dzin
Holder of the secrets of the enlightened mind of all bodhisattvas,
guru rinpoche la solwa deb
Guru Rinpoche, to you we pray.

döné rangjung gönpo dewa ché
Primordially, naturally arising ‘Lord of Great Bliss’,
sishyi khyabdak kunzang sangwa dü
All pervasive sovereign of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, Samantabhadra, ‘Embodiment of All Secrets’,
tötreng tsal chang longchö yongdzok ku
And ‘Powerful Skull Mālā’, your saṃbhogakāya form
trul gyur samyé gyé la solwa deb
Who radiates inconceivable emanations, to you we pray.

dü chen chunyi yar ngö tsé chu la
On the twelve great festivals, the tenth days of the waxing moon,
tendrel chunyi né su dakpé kü
Your enlightened forms purify the twelve links of dependent origination into their true nature.
yenlak chunyi sung rab chökhor kor
With the twelve branches of the teachings of Buddha, they turn the Wheel of Dharma,
dendön chunyi tukjé yeshe gyé
And through the twelve aspects of the meaning of the truths,1 they magnify the wisdom of compassion.
tsen gyi namdrang ngotsar chunyi drak
The number of your manifestations is famed as the twelve wonders,
mejung dzepa chenpo chunyi ten
Who display twelve great and extraordinary acts
ngödrub chunyi kalpa shyindu tsol
And grant us twelve siddhis, according to our share.
namtar jesu drenpé solwa deb
Remembering your life-story, we pray:

treldé tsé chur dhanakoshé tsor
On the tenth day of the monkey month, on the Dhanakośa lake,
ngotsar rangjung pemé nyingpor trung
In the heart of a wondrous, naturally appearing lotus you are born,
tso ling khandro nam la chökhor kor
And turn the wheel of Dharma for the island dākinīs—
guru tsokyé dorjer solwa deb
Guru Tsokyé Dorje, to you we  pray.

nedön gek dang galkyen barché shyi
Grant your blessing so that all obstructions from illness and döns, and all negative circumstances
and obstacles are pacified,
tsesö pal gyé nyamtok ngönshé char
Long life, merit and splendour increase, experiences, realization and clairvoyance arise,
gurü shyal tongchö tö pal gyi rir
And we are reborn on the Mountain of Glory to look upon your face, Guru, hear your teaching
kyé né tuk kyi sé gyur jingyi lob
And become the son or daughter of your heart.

takdé tsé chur orgyen gyalsar peb
On the tenth day of the tiger month, you arrive at the palace in Uḍḍiyāna,
indrabhuti sé kyi kalpar dzé
And are adopted by Indrabhūti as his crown prince.
ö chang khab shyé khorlö gyur gyal gyur
Taking Prabhāvatī as your wife, you rule as a universal monarch—
guru pema gyalpor solwa deb
Guru Pema Gyalpo, to you we pray.

ziji tob gyé né rik jung truk shyi
Grant your blessing so that our brilliance, charisma and strength increase, epidemics and turmoil
in the elements are pacified,
wang nga lé rung yi dé pobpa nyur
The five senses become pliable, and happiness, peace of mind and confidence quickly arise,
mi dang mi min lungsem wang du dü
We gather under our power the prāṇa-mind of humans and non-humans,
samdön yishyin drubpar jingyi lob
And all our aspirations are fulfilled, just as we desire.

yödé tsé chur kyen dang dé kul té
On the tenth day of the hare month, driven by circumstances and by signs,
gyalsi pang né silwé tsal du peb
You relinquish the kingdom for the Chilly Grove charnel ground.
dreltsé dönden jordrol tulshyuk drub
There, through your yogic disciplines of union and liberation, you make every connection of
the highest meaning—
shantarakshita la solwa deb
Śāntarakṣita, to you we pray.

ngatang longchö pel shying kang drö du
Grant your blessing so that our power, position and wealth increase, all human beings are attracted,
dro kün wang dü shyidak dren shyin nyen
All living things are magnetized, earth lords obey us like servants,
milam taktsen zangpor tongwa dang
We see good dreams and auspicious signs,
drub nyi terkha dolwar jingyi lob
And burst open the treasure of siddhis, ordinary and supreme.

druk dé tsé chur kün gar rabtu jung
On the tenth day of the dragon month, you are ordained by Ānanda,
sheja tarchin khedrub duma lé
And with countless scholars and adepts who have achieved the ultimate in knowledge,
do ngak kün chub shakya sengér drak
You attain consummate mastery over all the sūtras and tantras,
loden choksé shyab la solwa deb
And are famed as both Shakya Senge and Loden Choksé—at your feet we pray.

chidak zadü dé gyé nö tsé shyi
Grant your blessing so that the lords of death, planetary demons and the eight classes who bring
harm all are pacified,
tsultrim namdak lab sum yongsu dzok
Pure discipline and the three higher trainings are perfected,
rigpé né dang dogyü tamché la
And our knowledge of every field of learning, and of all the sūtras and tantras,
khyen rab chokmé gyepar jingyi lob
Grows to become limitless.

druldé tsé chur zahor gyalpo yi
On the tenth day of the snake month, the king of Zahor
mér sek tsor gyur pedong ü su shyuk
Burns you in a fire, which you transform into a lake, emerging resplendent upon the heart of
a lotus blossom.
lhacham yum ten dorjé ku ru gyur
Relying on Princess Mandāravā as consort, you attain the vajra body—
chimé pemajungné la solwa deb
Immortal Lotus-born, to you we pray.

zakar chok ngen dra kün nö tsé shyi
Grant your blessing so that all harm is eliminated from ill-omened planets and stars, from enemies
and thieves,
shyi jé küntu tashi delek pel
When at home or abroad, auspiciousness, prosperity and well-being increase,
karchok sungmé taktu dongdrok dzé
Well-intentioned guardians act always as our allies and support,
sam gu lhün gyi drubpar jingyi lob
And all our wishes are spontaneously fulfilled.

ta dé tsé chur orgyen dü lön gyi
On the tenth day of the horse month, when the malicious ministers of Uḍḍiyāna
sek kyang ma tsik ngotsar dzutrul ten
Burn you alive, you display the amazing miracle of remaining unscathed,
ka dü chö ten khor ché changchub kö
And, by teaching the Kadü Chökyi Gyatso, lead the king and his entourage to enlightenment—
pema benza tsal la solwa deb
Padma Vajra Tsal, to you we pray,

dü dé lhamin dukpé sadak lü
Grant your blessing so that all harm from māras, asuras, vicious earth lords and nāgas is completely
eliminated,
nöpa kün shyi gowé ka la nyen
And they obey the instructions they are given,
chökyong sungmé chi chol lé drub ching
Dharmapālas and guardians carry out all our commands,
gowé lha yi kyobpar jingyi lob
And patron gods afford their protection.

lukdé tsé chur gyagar lhochok su
On the tenth day of the sheep month, in India’s southern reaches,
mutek lhasung dangché talwar lak
You grind to dust the tīrthikas, along with their gods and guardians,
sangye tenpé gyaltsen gung du char
And hoist aloft the victory banner of Buddha’s teaching—
sengé dradrok tsal la solwa deb
Mighty Senge Dradok, to you we pray.

barché kün shyi tsé palyön ten gyé
Grant your blessing so that all obstacles are pacified, longevity, prosperity and perfect qualities
are increased,
nangwa wang dü pé gol tsené chom
We gain control over all perceptions, utterly vanquish all opponents,
dü shyi lé gyalkham sum dro kün la
We are victorious over the four maras, and actualize the benefits of generosity
jin tang penyön tobpar jingyi lob
Towards all beings in the three worlds.

jadé tsé chur zangling mutek kyi
On the tenth day of the bird month, the tīrthikas of Zangling,
gangé chur kyur gar dzé chu dokpé
Fling you into the river Ganges, but you dance in the sky, and reverse the current.
neyul nyen tsé kyab sol ten la kö
When the whole land is in peril, and they beg you for refuge and protection, you bring them
all within the Dharma—
guru khading tsal la solwa deb
Guru Khanding Tsal, to you we pray.

chong né kün jang khor mang samdön drub
Grant your blessing so that all chronic and immune system diseases are healed, our helpers grow
in number, and our wishes are fulfilled,
bangdzö dru dang khogü yojé pel
Food and resources of every kind increase, as well as everything we need,
sem dé ngak la nüpa barwa dang
Our mind is peaceful, our speech blazes with power,
tingdzin chokgyur kyewar jingyi lob
And our samādhi meditation becomes sublime and supreme.

khyi dé tsé chur mutek duk jor gyi
On the tenth day of the dog month, the tīrthikas give you poison,
ma tsuk dütsir gyur né zidang bar
Unharmed, you transform it into nectar, and shine in splendour.
khor ché dé tob nang gi ten la chuk
They and all their followers are inspired with faith and enter the teaching of Buddha—
dechen nyima özer la solwa deb
Guru of Great Bliss, Nyima Özer, to you we pray.

loda shyak dü kek dang té ngen shyi
Grant your blessing so that obstacles of the year, month, day and time as well as ill omens
are pacified,
chö dang tarpé bardu chöpa sel
All obstacles in the way of the Dharma and liberation are dispelled,
wangtang lung ta gü sok sorchü ching
Any decline in our personal power and lungta is repaired
chok lé nampar gyalwar jingyi lob
And we are victorious in every direction.

pak dé tsé chur balyul lha dré nam
On the tenth day of the pig month, the gods and demons of Nepal
purbü tul né yangdak drubpa dzé
Are subjugated by Vajrakīla, and then through accomplishing Yangdak
chakgya chenpo chok gi rigdzin drub
You attain the vidyādhara stage of supreme mahāmudrā—
dorjé tötreng tsal la solwa deb
Dorje Tötreng Tsal, to you we pray.

shinjé mamo jungpö né dang dön
Grant your blessing so that all illnesses and harm caused by yamas, mamos and jungpos,
lobur yedrok dümin chiwa shyi
Sudden accidents, and untimely death all are eliminated,
té sel lé drol lha dré chi chol nyen
We are freed from dangerous curses, gods and demons obey whatever their commands,
rang lü dorjer gyurwar jingyi lob
And our own bodies become indestructible as vajra.

jidé tsé chur böyul lha dré tul
On the tenth day of the rat month, you tame the gods and spirits of Tibet,
samyé lek shyeng damchö drönmé bar
You build Samyé to perfection, and light the flame of the sacred Dharma,
kalden jebang min ching drolwar dzé
You ripen and liberate your fortunate disciples, the king and subjects—
pemasambhawa la solwa deb
Padmasambhava, to you we pray.

ngakkhyal tsiktsub dzün mé kurpa tab
Grant your blessing so that idle chatter, harsh words, lies and slander,
nyentö dul trim changsem labpa nyam
Impairments of the śrāvaka’ vinaya discipline and bodhisattva precepts,
sang ngak damtsik gal sok nyetung nam
Breakages of samaya vows and the like, wrongdoing and downfalls, all are healed,
jang shying dak gyü dakpar jingyi lob
And our whole being is transformed and purified.

lang dé tsé chur chöyön ka drö té
On the tenth day of the ox month, master and disciples confer,
gangchen ta ü terkha jé nyé bé
And in the centre and on the borders of the land of snows you conceal millions of terma troves.
ten shyab ter kyong kadrin gyünché mé
With these treasures you safeguard what remains of the teachings, all with your constant kindness—
dorjé dro lö tsal la solwa deb
All-powerful Dorje Drolö, to you we pray.

dümin chi sok tral kyen minjung shying
Grant your blessing so that sudden misfortune, like untimely death, never befalls us,
pö ma tak tu dechen shyingkham dang
And as soon as we transfer to the next life, we are born in the pure realm of Great Bliss,
pema ö du gurü drung kyé né
And in the paradise of Lotus Light, in your very presence, Guru,
dro dön pakmé jungwar jingyi lob
And become a source of limitless benefit to living beings.

tsé chu kün la ngotsar dzepa ré
On every tenth day, when we practise and we pray to you,
jin gyi lab chir chö ching soldeb na
To receive the blessing brought by each of your wondrous acts,
mindö kün shyi tral yün lektsok nam
Then eliminate everything undesirable, and bring about every kind of goodness, now and in the
time to come,
drubpé dorjé sung nyi lumé dzö
And so make your vajra speech truly undeceiving.

tsé chu jung ré bö du pebpa yi
On every tenth day, you promised you would come to Tibet,
shyalshyé jedren tsechik güpa yi
And when I remember your words, then with single-minded devotion,
dungshuk drakpö nying né solwa deb
From my heart I pray, with passionate yearning and longing:
dulja yalwar ma dor tukjé chen
Never forsake us your followers, never abandon us, you with all your compassion!

nyikmé güpé tsepé bö bang nam
The people of Tibet, tormented by the degeneration of the dregs of time,
gönpo khyö lé resa shyen mepé
Have no hope left—none at all, lord, save for you.
ngön gyi tukdam dü la bab lak na
So, now the time has come to keep that pledge made long ago,
yeshe chenpö zikpa mayelwar
Do not let the gaze of your all-pervading wisdom ever turn away,
jikten dé shying gewé chö la chö
Let us enjoy worldly happiness and practise virtue,
sampé dön kün chöden yishyin drub
Let all our aspirations that are in keeping with the Dharma be fulfilled just as we desire,
kawa mepa dorjé seng lam drö
Let us travel the extraordinary vajra path without difficulty of any kind,
chamchik dömé long du drol dzé sol
Let us all be liberated together, we pray, in the primordial expanse!

This prayer, linked to the practice of the tenth day festival of Guru Rinpoche, which Tibetans
observe without fail, was authorized by the lord, our lama, the omniscient Pema Dongak
Lingpa himself, who explained that such a prayer is both vitally necessary and very important.
And so, according his words, and basing it on the history in the lord’s profound terma
'The Four Kaya Lama' and Lhodrak Gönpo Rinchen’s terma revelation 'Benefits of the Tenth
Day', Padma’s vidyādhara, Chimé Tennyi Yungdrung Lingpa, composed this, moved by intense
devotion. May virtue and goodness abound!

| Rigpa Translations, 2013. Clarification courtesy of Alak Zenkar Rinpoche and Tulku Thondup
Rinpoche.
↑ The ‘twelve aspects of the truths’ can be interpreted in various ways. In his commentary on
the Mañjuśrīnāmasaṃgīti, “Chanting the Names of Mañjuśrī”, the great scholar from Amdo,
Choné Drakpa Shedrup (1675-1748) explains these twelve aspects as referring to the manner
in which Buddha first taught the Four Noble Truths in the three turnings of the Wheel of Dharma
in terms of the 1) identity, 2) function and 3) result of each of the Four Truths, so
making twelve aspects. He says they can also be attributed to the twelve āyatanas—the six
sense objects and six sense faculties. On a more secret level, Choné explains the twelve
aspects as signifying the four empowerments, the four instants and the four joys. He concludes
by saying the twelve aspects can be associated also with the cessation of the twelve
links of interdependent origination. Meanwhile, the great master of the Ancient Translation
School, Vimalamitra, in his commentary on the same text, explains the twelve aspects as
twelve precious qualities of buddhahood: the five buddha families, the five primordial wisdoms,
plus prajña and compassion.