The Melodious Speech of Samantabhadra
A Prayer to the Glorious Master Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thaye
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thaye

karma kagyü tenpé nangjé chok
Supreme illuminator of the Karma Kagyü teachings,
ngak gi wangchuk yönten gya ché tso
Powerful lord of speech, your wondrous qualities as vast as the ocean,
gelek trinlé lab treng küntu khyab
The waves of your virtuous activity extending in all directions—
palden zangpö shyab la solwa deb
Glorious and noble lama, at your feet I pray!1

tsarchö jedzin kün shé yenlak ché
'Refutation', 'maintenance' and the universal science, together with their branches,2
chu trak rigpé né la tö sam dang
Your intelligence born of studying, contemplating and meditating upon
gompé lodrö chaktok dralwa yi
The ten sciences is without obstruction or hindrance—
namchö tayé den la solwa deb
To you whose discernment knows no bounds or limitation, I pray!

pema wangchen sok kyi jesu zung
Cared for by Pema Wangchen3 and the rest,
gar gyi wangchuk tukjé rik ngakchang
Holder of the awareness mantra of the compassionate Lord of Dance,4
trinlé drowa dulwé tsal ngawa
In your enlightened activity, you have the skill to discipline beings—
palden lama chok la solwa deb
Glorious and supreme guru, to you I pray!

drub rikdzin pa khyung gi dung lé drol
Born into the clan of Khyung,5 with its line of accomplished masters,
jangpé letro karpö chö la sé
Your karmic connection to pure Dharma, from past training, awoke,
khorlo nyi kyi tünkyen ngang gi tsok
And favourable conditions for the two domains6 gathered spontaneously,
ngotsar mé du jung la solwa deb
To you who are so wondrous and amazing, I pray!

shyen nö shyir ché pongwé gyü dam shing
Renouncing harmful acts, together with their basis, you disciplined your mind,
shyenpen shyir ché labpé né la shyol
And applied yourself to the task of benefitting others, along with its underlying attitude,
rim nyi ngöntok chiryang salwa yi
Your perfect realization of the two phases utterly clear and apparent—
sumden dorjé dzinpar solwa deb
To you, the Vajra-holder maintaining the three sets of vows, I pray!

khedrub depön yongdzin duma ten
You relied upon several great guides, learned and accomplished leaders,
do ngak gyatsor lhaksam tsönpé shyuk
And, with diligence and benevolence, entered the ocean of sūtra and mantra.
shyung dam mengak norbü kyé zang gi
To you, whose gift of jewel-like writings, advice and instructions,
kalden ulwa sel la solwa deb
Eradicates all spiritual poverty in fortunate disciples, I pray!

orgyen dü sum khyenpé dorjé ké
In the vajra words of Orgyen, knower of the past, present and future,
ter jin drubpé khorlö gyur nam kyi
Which the universal sovereigns among siddhas revealed as treasures,
namnang bai rotsa né namtrul du
You were prophesied as an emanation of Vairocana and Vairotsana,
lungten ngasol dzé la solwa deb
To you who were invested with such authority, I pray!

gyalwa yabsé chok ling khyentsé wang
The victor and his heir, Khyentse Wangpo and Chokgyur Lingpa,
chok zik nam kyi ta ra na ta dang
In their supreme vision, recognized you as an incarnation
gyurmé dorjé trulpar shyal shyé shing
Of Jetsün Tārānātha and Minling Terchen Gyurme Dorje—
yongdzin chok tu kur la solwa deb
To you who are praised as the supreme of guides, I pray!

gyalten rimé kyongwé daknang dang
With pure perception, you uphold all Buddha's teachings impartially,
dro pen rimé drubpé lhaksam té
And in your altruism, you seek to benefit all beings impartially,
gang jung tekar khyerwé chö tsul gyi
Your conduct is to address directly whatever occurs—
dampé namtar dzin la solwa deb
To you who leads the noblest life of liberation, I pray!

tsa dra rinchen drak gi wenné su
In the isolated location of Tsadra Rinchen Drak,
tsé chik drubpé gyaltsen tsuk né su
You planted the victory banner of accomplishment within a single life,
ché tsom kabab ten la jawa dzé
And served the teachings with words transmitted in speech and text,
dön nyi lhün gyi drub la solwa deb
To you who spontaneously benefits both self and other, I pray!

dorjé lung gi salwar ngakpé dön
The one who was so clearly praised in vajra statements,
heruka yi ku sung tuk kyi ten
Support for the Heruka's enlightened body, speech and mind,
tenpa jisi bardu dro pen gyi
To you, who for as long as the teachings remain in this world,
tsé su drubpar dzé la solwa deb
Act to bring about the most precious benefit of beings, I pray!

möpé tob dang tendrel lumé tü
By the strength of our devotion and the power of unfailing interdependence,
palden lama chok dang mindral shying
May we never be separated from the glorious and supreme guru,
khachö drongkhyer chenpor lhenchik tsok
And within a single gathering in the great celestial citadel,
dorjé sempé né chok tob gyur chik
May we attain the supreme level of Vajrasattva himself!

gang gi ringluk dorjé tar ten ching
As your tradition remains as steadfast and secure as a vajra,
zabgyé dzö nga taktu drokpa yi
And the profound and vast Five Treasures are proclaimed for evermore,
dak sok lekpé lam kün tarchin ching
May I and others follow this excellent path through to its very conclusion,
samdön lhündrub gelek palbar shok
And, with our wishes spontaneously fulfilled, may virtue shine in splendour!

While I lack even the slightest quality worthy of such praise as this, and to laud oneself is
an improper, foolish custom, I—Yönten Gyatso, who entertains only the three notions (of
eating, sleeping and pottering about)—wrote this simply to avoid turning down the ardent requests
of the diligent practitioner and noble lama, Pema Norbu. May virtue and goodness abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey. With deepest thanks to Alak Zenkar Rinpoche for his clarifications.
2015

Version: 1.1-20210611
↑ This first verse is an elaboration of Kongtrul's Vinaya ordination name, Karma Ngawang Yönten
Gyatso Trinle Kunkhyab Palzangpo (karma ngag dbang yon tan rgya mtsho 'phrin las kun khyab
dpal bzang po), which he received in 1833.↑ 'Refutation', or 'subjugation' (tshar gcod)
here refers to the two sciences of linguistics (sgra) and pramāṇa, i.e., logic and epistemology
(tshad ma); 'maintenance', or care (rjes 'dzin) includes the two sciences of medicine
(gso) and the fine arts (bzo); and 'universal science' refers to the so-called 'inner
science' (nang don) or Buddhist philosophy.  These are the five major sciences. The five
minor sciences are branches of the major sciences. Alak Zenkar Rinpoche↑ Kongtrul often refers
to his teacher Situ Pema Nyinje Wangpo as Pema Wangchen, emphasising his identification
with Guru Padmasambhava.↑ Narteśvara (gar gyi dbang phyug).↑ The Khyung or Khyungpo clan
traces its ultimate origin to the mythic bird, garuḍa (Tib. khyung). Kongtrul considered
his father to have been Khyungpo Lama Yungdrung Tendzin↑ Literally the 'two wheels', this
refers to the domains of study and practice, or the 'learning sphere' of study and reflection
and the 'renunciation sphere' of meditation.