The Melodious Sound of Gathering Auspiciousness
A Prayer Based on the Liberational Life of the Omniscient Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé, with additional verses by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

ji ta jinyé sheja tamché khyen
You have understood the nature and extent of all that can be known;
mikmé tukjé dro la bu tar gong
With non-referential compassion, you regard beings as your children;
khorwa dongtruk nüpé chö kyi gyal
Dharma sovereign, capable of emptying saṃsāra from its very depths—
khyentsé wangpö shyab la solwa deb
Noble Khyentse Wangpo, at your feet I pray.

gyalwé yab chik jetsün jampé yang
The only father of the victorious buddhas is venerable Mañjughoṣa,
gang dul namrol chöying khyabpa lé
Whose manifestations, taming as needed, pervade the dharmadhātu.
nyikdü ten dro kyobpé palgön du
As one among them, you purposely took birth in this degenerate age,
samshyin kyewa shyé la solwa deb
To become a glorious protector of teachings and beings—to you I pray.

do mé dé shyi gé chü men gyi jong
In a medicinal valley in Derge, land of fourfold wellbeing and tenfold virtue,1
trinlé dro dul trulpé né kyi char
Among the manifest regions for taming beings through enlightened activity,
namdak rik sok chok gi zikpa ngé
Having applied the five supreme considerations, such as purity of family line,
trulpé ku ru ten la solwa deb
You demonstrated taking birth as a nirmāṇakāya—to you I pray.

yeshe nyepé namdren chok nam kyi
With one voice, supreme guides possessing wisdom
dampé kyebur drin chik lungten ching
Prophesied that you would become a sublime individual,
palpé chö lé dé chir lhami kün
And, as you transcended ordinary conduct, everyone, human and divine,
drowé gön du ngak la solwa deb
Praised you as a lord among beings—to you I pray.

ütsang bö chen küntu shyab kyi chak
You travelled throughout Ü, Tsang, and Greater Tibet,
nyepa sum gyi yongdzin gya lhak ten
Relying on more than a hundred teachers, whom you delighted in the three ways.2
kyongal mepar damchö yongsu tsol
Tirelessly you searched high and low for the sacred Dharma.
tukkyé pakyé khyö la solwa deb
To you, the one whose intention is immeasurable, I pray.

sa chen puk tu tukdam dzepé tsé
While you were meditating in Sachen Kunga Nyingpo’s cave,
lhakpé lha yi chakgya tukkar tim
The mudrā of the supreme deity dissolved into your heart,
pobpé terchen gyepo yongsu drol
Releasing the eight great treasures of courageous eloquence.3
khyen nyi tsal chen dzok la solwa deb
To you, whose potential for twofold knowledge was perfected, I pray.

dratsé zo so drang né tsik gyen sok
Linguistics, logic, the arts, medicine, calculation, poetry and the rest—
né ngarikpa yenlak dang chepar
As you perfectly mastered the five fields of knowledge
pul du sönpé gangchen dzinmé khong
And their branches, your reputation for scholarship
khepé nyenpé khyab la solwa deb
Reached throughout the Land of Snows—to you I pray.

dul ngön uma parchin sang ngak kyi
By merely glancing at the texts of the Vinaya, Middle Way, Prajñāpāramitā,
gyü künzikpa tsam gyi ting leb ching
And the tantras of the Secret Mantra you realized their deepest meaning.
mi jé zung tob tenpé khorlö tsul
You gained infallible powers of mnemonic retention
ma bé salwar tön la solwa deb
And clearly displayed the qualities of Sthiracakra4—to you I pray.

drimé tsultrim norbü gyenché gek
The jewelled ornaments of your immaculate discipline are enchanting;
tingdzin dzum kar kalden yiwang guk
The smiling countenance of your concentration captivates the fortunate;
sherab rol gek sa sum chi du yo
And the graceful play of your wisdom delights the three worlds—
lab sum wangchuk shyab la solwa deb
To you, the mighty lord of threefold training, I pray.

zabgyé né la chö chen dul dangdral
Your dharmic vision of the profound and vast is unsullied;
ché tsö tsom la chak dang tokpamé
You are unhindered in exposition, debate and composition;
dzechö kün la trulpé drima zé
And in all your actions you are uncontaminated by delusion—
lhami yiché kyé la solwa deb
To you, who induces confidence in gods and men, I pray.

rang gi yönten gyatsö ter shyin bé
You conceal your own virtues like treasure in the ocean;
shyen gyi yönten tramor ngak shing dü
You commend and revere the slightest attributes of others;
ten drö döndu ché gü dokpa yang
For the sake of the teachings and beings, you give away
tsa shyin tongwar dzé la solwa deb
Like hay even your most prized possessions—to you I pray.

zung dang tingdzin ngönshé gyatso nga
With oceanic powers of memory, meditation and higher perception,
jikten sum gyi chö'ö nyi gyur kyang
You are truly someone who is suitable for the three worlds to revere,
kheng drek mi nga damchö tsik chik chir
Yet you are not arrogant and would gladly endure hardship
kachen dang du shyé la solwa deb
Even for the sake of a single word of sacred Dharma—to you I pray.

tarnang chö la nyepé dzin kyong sok
Since you were never involved in any mundane activities
jikten jashyak gangla ang tö mepé
Seemingly related to the Dharma, such as administration,
jikmé sengé tabur kunzang chö
You remain like a fearless lion, your activity always perfect—
sateng drenda dral la solwa deb
To the one who is without rival on this earth, I pray.

drubgyü shingta ché gyé ringluk kyi
All the rivers of scriptures, explanatory instructions and pith advice
shyung dam mengak chulung malüpa
From the traditions of the eight great chariots of the practice lineage
tuk tsor kyil né mindrol gyün bebpé
Merged in the sea of your heart, and with a stream of ripening and liberation
tenpé soktsa tü la solwa deb
You enhance the vital channel of the teachings—to you I pray.

tubten yongsu dzokpé shingta ché
Great charioteer for the entire teaching of Śākyamuni Buddha,
dulja ri su ma ché dulwé nyen
You are a friend who impartially trains all those to be disciplined
chok su ma lhung drubta tadak gi
And does not fall into sectarian bias, a jewel upon the crowns
tsuk gi norbur gyur la solwa deb
Of all the various schools and tenet systems—to you I pray.

trinlé tamché shyenpen bashyik drub
All your activity is performed solely for the benefit of others;
dreltsé dönden ngotsar té mang nga
Your every connection is meaningful; you possess many wondrous signs;
sönam tsokchen sam mi khyabpa trün
The vast merit you have accumulated is beyond imagining;
sa chü wangchuk khyö la solwa deb
Mighty lord of the tenth bhūmi, to you I pray.

orgyen yabyum drimé shenyen shyab
The Guru of Oḍḍiyāna and consort, the noble Vimalamitra,
chögyal mé wön chö wang künkhyen sok
The ancestral dharma kings, Chöwang,5 Omniscient Longchenpa,
guden gyüpé lama yidam lhé
And the rest—gurus of the ninefold lineage and the yidam deities
jinlab ngödrub tsal la solwa deb
All conferred their blessings and siddhis upon you—to you I pray.

tsewa chenpo khu wön gyü ché kyi
The great benevolent one,6 the uncles7 and nephews8 and their lineage
wangkur gyü té shyenyang pak bö kyi
Bestowed empowerments on you and entrusted you with tantras;
khedrub dumé ngö nyam milam du
And numerous Indian and Tibetan scholars and adepts came to you
yangyang jesu zung la solwa deb
Directly and in dreams and repeatedly held you in their care—to you I pray.

khyepar lobpön jampal shenyen gyi
The master Mañjuśrīmitra, in particular, transmitted to you
dogyü sangdzö tsal né yeshe kur
The secret treasury of sūtra and tantra, and by blessing you
jin gyi labpé nyi dang yermé pé
In his wisdom form fully awakened your wisdom realization,
khyen tok dzokpar sé la solwa deb
Indivisible from his own—to you I pray.

düpé dal du shyuk tsé so tön chok
As you entered the maṇḍala of Gathered Intentions, the power of
yé wang tu yi nyikmé pung kham jang
The sublime Sotön Yeshe Wangchuk cleansed your impure aggregates and elements
dorjé sempé sangwa sum du gyur
And transformed them into the three secrets of Vajrasattva.
rik kün khyab dak chok la solwa deb
Supreme, omnipresent lord of all families, to you I pray.

gyalyum dorjé tsün mö jesu zung
The Vajra Queen, mother of the victorious ones, accepted you;
nangsi dakpa rabjam khorlor shar
Appearance and existence arose as maṇḍalas, pure and infinite;
dorjé lü kyi kyilkhor salwar zik
And you clearly perceived the maṇḍala of the vajra body—
drubpé khyuchok khyö la solwa deb
Foremost of siddhas, to you I pray.

chinang né sum khandrö duwa tob
For you, the ḍākinīs gathered in the three abodes, outer and inner,
barwa sum gyi yeshe gong du pel
The wisdom of the three forms of blazing intensified,
chöpa sum gyi tendrel tarchinpé
And you perfected the auspicious interconnection of threefold conduct—
naljor wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Great lord of yogis, to you I pray.

kyerab dumé lé kyi tro sé dé
Your karmic propensity from numerous past lives was activated,
dogyü kalung könpé putika
And you collected volumes of rarely transmitted instructions of sūtra and tantra,
ten chok damdzé chulung jewa nyé
As well as supreme representations and sacred substances, like countless rivers
namtar gyatsor kyil la solwa deb
All brought together within the ocean of your life of liberation—to you I pray.

gyüpa drukden sa dang gongpé ter
By receiving the six lineages—earth and mind treasures,
daknang nyengyü jedren yangter ché
Pure visions, aural transmissions, recollections and rediscovered treasures—
kabab rinchen nam dün gyalsi nyé
You acquired the kingdom of the seven precious transmissions.9
chö kyi khorlö gyur la solwa deb
Universal sovereign of Dharma, to you I pray.

rangnang wang dü shyennang zil gyi nen
Having mastered your own perception, you overpower that of others;
mabepar yang trinlé nam shyi drub
Even without applying effort, you accomplish the four kinds of activity;
daki chösung tuden drekpa yi
And ḍākinīs, dharma guardians and powerful haughty spirits
chi chol ka shyin drub la solwa deb
Are at your beck and call, fulfilling your commands—to you I pray.

zabgyé chö kyi khorlo drangmepé
Through countless turnings of the Dharma Wheel, profound and vast,
kalden jé nyé min ching drolwar dzé
You matured and liberated as many fortunate ones as there are grains of sand.
sam gyi mi khyab pakpé namtar chang
Master of a sublime and inconceivable life of liberation,
tukjé daknyi khyé la solwa deb
Embodiment of compassion, to you I pray.

Supplementary Verses:
shying dir zikpa yolwé tsul ten tsé
You who demonstrated the conclusion of your vision for this world,
trulshyi dang sil tsemo ngapa ru
By merging as one in the basic space of wisdom intent with Vimalamitra,
ngabgyé tsukgyen drimé shenyen dang
Crown adornment of five hundred paṇḍitas and basis of your emanation,
gong ying chik tu gyur la solwa deb
At the Clear and Cool Five-Peaked Mountain—to you I pray.

lar yang gang dul duljé nang ngo ru
Then once more, in the perception of those to be trained however necessary,
ku sung tuk dang yönten trinlé kyi
You displayed emanations of body, speech, mind, qualities, and activity,
trulpa dumé ten drö rewa kong
Thereby to fulfil hopes and aspirations for the teachings and beings.
dro dön pata yé la solwa deb
To you whose contribution to beings’ welfare is without limit, I pray.

gön khyö küntu zikpa chenpo der
When you, O protector, awaken as the great All-Seeing One,10
ngön tsang gya tsé khor gyi tokma ru
May we have the fortune to share in your supreme enlightenment
dakchak changchub chok gi kalwar den
By being among the very first in your retinue,
gyalwa dé yi shyabdring jepar shok
And by serving you as that victorious one.
These are the words of Dharmamati.

miché güpé tsechik soltab tü
Through the power of praying single-pointedly with unwavering devotion,
kyewa di zung changchub matob bar
May I never be apart from you, the supreme and glorious guru,
palden lama chok dang mindral bar
Henceforth from this life until I attain awakening,
jesu zung né namtar ngön jé shok
And may you guide and care for me until I realize liberation.

nyepa sum gyi tsulshyin ten né kyang
By following you properly through the three means of delight,
tuk kyi chü tob nyamlen ta ru chin
May I receive the essence of your wisdom and complete my practice.
sa dang lam gyi yönten yongdzok té
May I fully perfect all the qualities of the paths and bhūmis
dorjé chang wang gopang drub gyur chik
And ultimately attain the level of the mighty Vajradhara!

chö shyin drub la barché minjung shying
May there be no obstacles as I practise in accordance with the Dharma.
lungtok chö la rangwang jorpa yi
And as I gain mastery of the Dharma of scripture and realization,
sangye tenpa dzamling khyabpar pel
May I spread the Buddha’s teachings throughout this world of ours,
chö kyi gyalpo khyé dang tsungpar shok
And come to be your equal, O sovereign of Dharma!

This droplet was drawn with the hair-tip of devotion from the vast ocean of the liberational
life-story of this precious omniscient guru, who is sovereign lord of all Śākyamuni's teachings.
In response to the requests of numerous devoted students, the foolish Lodrö Thayé
extracted it from the life-story prayer to the peerless Shangpa Kagyü called A Garland of
Uḍumbara Flowers and added a few additional verses of aspiration and such like. May virtue
and excellence abound!
The three supplementary verses related to the master's parinirvāṇa and rebirth were added by
Chökyi Lodrö. May they become a cause for being cared for by the venerable Mañjughoṣa Guru
in all our lives to come and for the blessings of his wisdom vision to penetrate the centre
of our hearts. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2022.

Source: 'Jam mgon kong sprul blo gros mtha’ yas. "kun mkhyen 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang
po'i rnam thar gsol 'debs bkra shis 'khyil ba'i sgra dbyangs." In Rin chen gter mdzod chen
mo/ . New Delhi: Shechen Publications, 2007–2008. Volume 1: 803–810

Version: 1.0-20220111
↑ Derge (sde dge) is often glossed as the land of the four aspects of wellbeing (sde bzhi) and
ten virtues (dge bcu).↑ The three ways of delighting the guru are explained as follows
in Patrul Rinpoche, The Words of My Perfect Teacher (Boston, Shambhala Publications, 1998),
Chapter 6, p.145 ‘How to Follow a Spiritual Friend’: “The best way is known as the offering
of practice, and consists of putting whatever he teaches into practice with determination,
disregarding all hardship. The middling way is known as service with body and speech,
and involves serving him and doing whatever he needs you to do whether physically, verbally
or mentally. The lowest way is by material offerings, which means to please your teacher
by giving him material goods, food, money and so forth.”↑ The eight treasures of courageous
eloquence (spobs pa'i gter brgyad) are: 1) treasure of recollection; 2) treasure of intelligence;
3) treasure of realization; 4) treasure of retention (dhāraṇī); 5) treasure of
courageous eloquence; 6) treasure of Dharma; 7) treasure of bodhicitta; 8) treasure of accomplishment.↑
A form of Mañjuśrī.↑ Guru Chökyi Wangchuk (1212–1270).↑ Sachen Kunga Nyingpo
(1092–1158) is often referred to as brtse ba chen po or brtse chen, the great benevolent
one.↑ Sönam Tsemo (1142–1182) and Jetsün Drakpa Gyaltsen (1147–1216).↑ Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga
Gyaltsen (1182–1251) and Chögyal Pakpa Lodrö Gyaltsen (1235–1280).↑ The seven special transmissions
(bka’ babs bdun) consist of the orally transmitted teachings (bka’ ma) and the
six aforementioned lineages.↑ Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo will ultimately awaken as a buddha
called the All-Seeing One (kun tu gzigs pa).